This isn't a thing where it's going to
be a long-term shutdown.
>> Trump is playing a different game by a
different set of rules than I think the
Democrats on Capitol Hill.
>> The market doesn't seem to really be
paying attention to what's happening
from, you know, the government shutdown
perspective. The data is the data
whether it comes out or not.
>> This means we're flying blind in a
highly foggy environment and this is
very risky. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg Savannah
starts right now. Coming into Thursday,
shaking off the politics. Equity markets
kicking off October, adding to
September's rally as Washington shows
little sign of delivering a
breakthrough. The limited data we do
have is keeping the Fed well on track to
cut interest rates. And look,
yesterday's ADP data is controversial,
especially with some of the revisions.
But what's fascinating to me is how the
economic data, the limited uh that we
have is being interpreted completely
differently in the bond market or the
stock market. The bond market is saying,
"Oh no, weakness ahead. The Fed's got a
cut. The stock market is saying, "Yay,
the Fed is going to cut. Risk on." And
how much does this reflect two different
economies in parallel that the Fed is
responding to in one hand and the stock
market's responding to in another hand?
Now, typically we'd say wait, wait for
the data. Jobless claims, payrolls to
see if it confirms what we got from ADP,
but you're going to have to wait a
little bit longer. No claims later on
this morning. Perhaps no payrolls
tomorrow morning at 8:30 Eastern time.
>> Doesn't look like we're going to get the
payrolls report tomorrow. We do not have
uh right now a working framework for
Democrats to be willing enough to sign
up for the continuing resolution to keep
the government open. And I say that
because Senate Majority Leader John Thun
had this interview with Political and
almost acknowledged that there has been
outreach between these two groups and
that they would be willing to have a
conversation when it comes to healthcare
and these subsidies when they have eight
or 10, preferably 10 or more Democrats
sign up based a little bit more mass
that they're willing to have a
negotiation if more Democrats are
willing to keep the government open
through this continuing resolution.
>> Typically, investors don't really care
about it. The market looks through it.
The economy bounces back. Timing
matters. Is it different this time? Neil
Dutter Ran Mack had this to say. It's
coming at a fragile time. It could go on
for a while. Government workers might
save more if they think this will happen
again. He's a little bit more nervous
about the position we're in. The timing
of this comes out and what could happen
to this economy.
>> And that's from the economic perspective
and that's without the potential job
cuts that we hear being threatened from
the White House that could come in the
next few days. There's an additional
aspect which is this is a highly
confusing moment economically with even
less data. were in a dark room and now
we've got blindfolds on and now we've
got big helmets over those blindfolds.
And there's a question here, especially
as Austin Goulsby of the Chicago Fed
comes out. Think what you will of uh
some of his proclamations. He said,
"This just makes it incredibly difficult
for us to really have up-to-date
information as we head into that meeting
as it's unlikely they're going to be
able to get CPI the longer this drags
on."
>> So, you've got the data and then Brema
pointed out, you've got the equity
market close to alltime highs at record
highs and then you've got private
markets too, valuations. Do you remember
the definition of a unicorn? private
startup valuation of a billion dollars.
We've got herds of them now. Check this
out. $500 billion valuation for Open AI.
Just get your head around that. A few
years ago, unicorn super rare. $500
billion valuation for that company.
>> Yeah. Now we're selling My Little
Ponies. Look, I'm looking at this and
I'm thinking to myself, at what point
does this indicate Froth? And at what
point does this represent the sea change
that open AI really represented that
catapulted a lot of the tech valuation
from 2022 and completely transformed the
way the AI was viewed in terms of its
potential in this economy. So one of two
ways of looking at this is this auror
shock test as people kind of game out
valuations of other companies as well.
>> NASDAQ futures up this morning on the
S&P as well high by 210 of 1%. Coming up
this hour John Steelers of Oppenheimer
as markets shrug off the government
shutdown. Vtos Paduto of RBC Capital
Markets on a surge in dealmaking and
Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan Asset
Management on what labor market weakness
means for the Federal Reserve. We begin
this hour with stocks rising after
closing at record highs. John Sto of
Oppenheimimer calling for a street high
7100 on the S&P by year end writing this
economic resilience along with revenue
earnings growth and innovation across
the sectors remains key in our view to
the market's ability to continue
climbing the proverbial wall of worry.
John joins us now for more. John, good
morning.
>> Good morning. Is that government
shutdown just another brick in that wall
of worry? I think it's another brick in
the wall to uh to quote Pink Floyd and
uh but that said we have we've seen the
markets really overcome uh at and
traverse hurdles all along this year and
it is indeed it's it's the innovation
it's the resilience and it's a different
structure in terms of the market itself
we believe in terms of participants you
know the market is not just the the guy
with the the monle from the monopoly
game you know it's all kinds of people
and in the US it's multigenerational
people in investing for longer term
goals. So the the disturbances that are
caused by the potential for a a a
shortterm or intermediate or longer term
shutdown uh are of less concern to them
right away as opposed to getting money
positioned for goals that may be three,
five, seven years out.
>> Can I build on that, John? Do you think
there's some tension between different
generations and how they view how this
market should be valued? some tension
between the boomers and what they think
the appropriate multiple is for this
stock market with a different sector
mix. Most certainly I think you know
when you look at at people who've been
the boomer generation stocks are cheap
at a 16 forward multiple as you go uh
forward in generationally uh people are
willing to pay higher multiples for
growth and I believe the reason why a
lot of it comes from Ed Yardini who's
for years said that the uh what is it
the the Wilshshire 5000 there aren't
enough stocks to really qualify that are
publicly traded anymore for that indicy.
anymore because it's what is it about
3,500 stocks or 3,400 what that you
actually have to choose from. And the
the thought is here is it's supply and
demand. It's the basic thing of
economics. The the demand for your your
technology, your your hyper growers, uh
the ones who are wellestablished, deeply
embedded in the lives of both business
and the consumer where we're all on the
upgrade cycle whether we like it or not.
As I always like to say, this is this is
what's driving this market in many ways.
And it differentiates not just
generationally, but the difference
between traders who are at looking at at
risk to uh capital uh capital put at
risk on a day-to-day minute-to-minute
basis and intermediate to longerterm
investors. When I started in this
business 42 years ago, hard to believe.
It's not that I didn't think I'd live
this long. I didn't know how long it
would happen. Uh but that it was the the
the uh retail investor would always come
into the market usually about once the
market was up 20% and everybody knew it
and the cab driver was asking you for a
hot tip if you saw you had a you had a
copy of the Wall Street Journal under
your arm. Today people are very well
informed by the financial media. They
have all the arguments. you get to see
the players actually express themselves
and you see the what is it the body
language that people are using, you
know, and and it makes it it's actually
it's it's remarkably more intimate than
it was ever before and people are better
informed and better able to work, we'd
like to think, with financial adviserss
who are working as fiduciaries.
>> They also are better sold in the story
of the hopes and dreams of just how much
AI can do. And there is a lot of truth
to it. And history doesn't repeat, but
it does rhyme. And back in the.com
bubble, boom and bust, there was AOL.
You've got mail. We don't do that
anymore. I mean, some people still do
and you know, God bless you. But I'm
just wondering going forward, how do you
identify all of the money that's going
to be wasted at a time when there's a
lot of projections and not a lot of data
on what ultimately will happen or how
it's going to be applied?
>> Well, I I I think for one is if we just
go back to if we if we just go back to
as recently as the tech bubble, things
were practically primitive versus where
we are today. I can remember working at
another well-known firm uh headquarters
uh on Broadway at in 1997 and suddenly
you would find the internet would go out
you know and when you would go home to
connect to the corp you'd have you know
sometime a little little device would be
and all that stuff today it's uh we
still have problems with technology but
it's very well established and the idea
is you know well I can remember putting
dimes in a pay phone people don't even
know what a pay phone used to look Like
I can see sometimes I see an old
architecture in our building which
another firm had before us. There's
actually a group of things that no phone
anymore. But what are these things for?
They're for the press as they exit
exited to write things down. And but
where we are today, I think a lot of the
stuff will likely prove disappointing.
But the core will be it's already being
invested in and utilized to create
greater efficiencies.
>> I guess that you talk about the babies
being thrown out with the bathwater. I
don't see any babies and I don't see any
bath water being thrown out either.
Nothing's being thrown out. So, how do
you identify what that means?
>> Well, I'd say actually on a day-to-day
basis, you know, it's I'm I'm not solely
a strategist. I also manage money for
the firm uh both ETF portfolio with uh
passive indices and then uh individual
stock portfolio. And we've seen a
considerable broadening of the rally
that has suddenly rewarded sectors like
industrials. We've seen better better
attention played to uh utilities both on
as it looks like the Fed is going to be
cutting rates going forward not not
necessarily enthusiastically but on a
down payment kind of basis to show that
the rates hike cycle is over. Uh what
what you have effectively is is is
you've got utilities are no longer
considered as much of a risk as a bond
proxy because it looks like interest
rates are coming down. Um, uh, healthc
care has caught a bid as a result of one
company's, uh, efforts to reduce prices
in the last couple of days. I'd
mentioned the name of the company, but
because I manage money, the firm doesn't
let me, they don't want me pitching
stocks that I might or might not own.
>> Staying on the Fed, how difficult is the
end of October's meeting going to be if
this government shutdown is prolonged?
We know we're not likely going to get
tomorrow's payrolls report, but then
what about CPI on October 15th as well?
They might not have all the most
relevant up-to-date data. I I think, you
know, I I think it's close enough to to
the September meeting that I think the
the we kind of got a fairly good idea
that the that the the dot plots showed
that there would likely be a cut in
October and I think we're close enough
in terms of the data. I think the
question would be to December. What's
going to happen there? And hopefully by
then this will be behind us, this whole
question of the shutdown.
>> John, never mind the bath water. This
has been a pool party now for 6 months
and it's getting wilder. I think spring
break. Don't want to go there.
>> Look at the valuations we're seeing in
private markets. 500 billion dollars on
a startup.
>> Now, John, I'm just trying to work out,
you know, never mind the risk aversion.
I don't see any. I saw a bunch of debt
issuance in September and people
starting to get pretty excited about the
future still on top of that. When do you
start to get concerned?
>> Well, you know, I I play in the public
markets as opposed to the private
markets.
>> Does one inform the other right now?
that that's a well I I think to some
extent but the selectivity there and
what is chosen to move into the private
equity market is not necessarily
everything at play I think that's
something to look at as we go forward
and that uh as you mentioned the money
that's being thrown at this one
particular deal is like oh the valuation
is is rather worrisome except if you
consider how much is already developed
this is a much you know this isn't the
primitive stage of people saying someday
we will have a million eyeballs on our
on our website. This is companies that
know you need billions of eyeballs and
and you need to be well capitalized and
there is it's not just well capitalized
but the likelihood of cash flow
generation pretty quickly from here to
there because this week I was at a due
diligence meeting in an ETF firm uh a
management firm that has ETFs and
they're technology people just talking
about all the investment that's being
made here but by smart people who are
educated and deeply involved in tech for
maybe 40 or 50 years.
>> John, it's good to see you. Always is to
get your thoughts. An experience
spanning 40 years plus. John Stalus
there of Oppenheimer. A fascinating
story just dropping from Reuters. Check
this out. The lead paragraph. Eli Liy
was asked to produce more insulin. Fizer
to produce more of its top selling
cancer drug Librans Ibance and its
cholesterol drug Liptor and Londonbased
Astroenica asked to consider a new
headquarters in the US. According to two
new sources, this dance between the US
and the private sector, Trump seeking
deals in 20 to 30 critical industries
before the midterms. The White House and
agency staff are seeking deals that can
be announced by the presidents. Deals
include taking equity stakes and
regulatory relief in exchange for
concessions. That dance has been a
dominant feature of this story for the
past 6 months.
>> Sounds like Trump RX wants to expand.
Further in the story, they talk about
how these executives are getting near
daily calls from Chief of Staff Susie
Wilds. And it comes at a point where
during the shutdown, the debate that
Democrats want to have is around
healthcare. And this is something that
Democrats actually one of the few areas
right now they are polling better than
Republicans. So if Trump can make this a
Republican issue that we are delivering
maybe on bringing drug prices down at
least seeing that they are active
engagement with some of these
pharmaceutical companies that could be a
political win for them going into the
midterms.
>> That's the latest story from the team
over at Reuters this morning. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. The White House
is preparing for mass layoffs of federal
workers as the US government shutdown
stretches on. Budget director Russell
Vote told lawmakers that agencies will
move to terminate workers within 1 to
two days. According to people familiar,
details about what agencies or positions
would be targeted remain unknown.
The US Supreme Court refused to allow
President Donald Trump to immediately
oust Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Cook
as she sues to keep her job. The court's
order means Cook can remain in her
position at least until January when the
justices will issue a new ruling after
hearing arguments over her alleged
Morgan fraud.
Open AAI's valuation soarses to $500
billion that makes it the world's most
valuable startup. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, current and former
employees sold more than $6 billion
worth of stock, pushing the company past
its previous $300 billion valuation.
This all as negotiations are underway
with Microsoft to convert Open AI into a
for-profit company. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on a
program bracing for layoffs.
>> If this thing drags on for another few
days or god forbid another few weeks, we
are going to have to lay people off. I
actually don't think it's going to be
that long of a shutdown. You already saw
some evidence that moderate Democrats
are cracking a little bit.
>> That's up next with Michael Townend of
Charles Swap live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Typically given us Thursday, we'd be
about 2 hours away from jobless claims.
Not getting jobless claims today. On to
tomorrow. Looking for payrolls 8:30
Eastern time. Probably not getting
payrolls at 8:30 Eastern time. So your
big event tomorrow could be the ISM
services at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time
tomorrow morning. Now, typically
sometimes that does end up being the
bigger event on payrolls Friday. ISM
services, big chunk of the economy,
important read for the month of
September. I'll be glued into that one.
Never mind payrolls.
>> Yeah, that's why I was really excited
yesterday for ISM manufacturing and then
it came out and it was just sort of a
meh. It kind of doesn't give us any
clear sense of where things are going.
Same with some of the other data that we
got ahead of what was supposed to be
jobless Thursday and then uh potentially
non-farm payrolls on Friday. I am
curious though to see whether you are
seeing any acceleration or any clarity
in how much that could inform what the
Fed ends up doing.
>> The data we have got ADP the lowest
number since March 2023. Lisa talked
about factory activity shrinking for a
seventh consecutive month. New orders
slipping back into contraction. That was
slightly unnerving yesterday. That was
bad news and that was good news for the
bond market and apparently good news for
stocks too. Equity futures up again this
morning by 210 of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.3 and Savannah this
morning bracing for layoffs
if this thing drags on for another few
days or god forbid another few weeks. We
are going to have to lay people off.
We're going to have to save money in
some places so the essential services
don't get turned off in other places.
That is the reality of the government
shutdown that Chuck Schumer and the
Democrats have forced upon the
administration. I actually don't think
it's going to be that long of a shutdown
because I think you already saw some
evidence that moderate Democrats are
cracking a little bit.
>> That was the vice president of the
United States on the government
shutdown. Here's the latest so far this
morning. The White House and the budget
office warning the administration will
begin firing federal employees due to
the government shutdown. Bloomberg's
Laura Davidson joins us now from
Washington for more. Laura, welcome to
the program. Walk us through the next
stages of this. What happens today,
tomorrow, through the weekend.
So, as soon as today, we could start
seeing some of these mass layoffs that
uh Russ Vote, who's the budget director
at the White House, has teased. Um, he
is is playing very hard ball tactics
here and is playing a a politically
astute game. Um, he's not just cutting
random spending or or looking to cut
random jobs. He's looking to cut uh the
government where it most affects
Democrats, particularly key Democrats,
in this fight. So, we saw yesterday one
of his first moves was to cut
infrastructure funding, about 18 billion
for New York City. Of course, Hakeim
Jeff, the Democratic House leader, and
Chuck Schumer, uh the Democratic Senate
leader, uh you know, are both from New
York. Uh you know, we then saw he moved
he cut green funding from um from only
states who voted for Harris. Um as we
move into this job phase, which again
could start as soon as today, um it's
likely that these jobs will be either
for programs that Democrats like or in
places where Democrats live.
>> Laura Davidson with the latest down in
Washington DC. Laura, thank you. Michael
Town of Charles Schwab joins us now for
more. Michael, welcome. I just want to
build on some of that with you. What
you're looking at at the moment and
ultimately who's benefiting from any of
this and the court of public opinion. Is
anyone winning?
>> Yeah, I I think it's really hard to see
anyone winning at this point. And uh you
know, I think the administration is
trying these kind of hard ball tactics
that target Democrats. And I think the
question is whether that actually
hardens the Democrat position rather
than, you know, sort of making them
cave. uh the vice president in the in
the quote you played uh you know
referenced that there has been a couple
of Democrats that have voted for the
most recent iteration of the the
temporary extension of funding. Um but
it's only been a couple and they still
need several more uh from the Republican
perspective. They need at least five
more Democrats to get on board. I'm not
sure that these tactics are are the way
that that's going to happen. So I I
think this is going to play out over a
longer time than maybe the vice
president thinks. So when OM Director
Russ Vault though gets on a call with
House Republicans and says we're going
to have these mass reductions in the
workforce, firings are going to begin,
is that going to be legal when the
government reopens?
Yeah, I think this is an interesting
question about whether it is legal
because typically as we've gone through
shutdowns in the past, right, workers
are furoughed and then you know they get
their jobs back when the government
reopens and in most m cases u they're
retroactively paid for for that time. So
you know I think this is like so many
things in the administration. it's
likely to end up in the courts and and
you know the decision on on whether it's
legal or not is going to play out in
real time and then possibly after
whatever uh happens with the end of the
uh the shutdown. So I think that's an
open question.
>> This is one tool the Republicans are
using to try to make this as
uncomfortable as possible for the
Democrats. We also saw obviously the
freezing of funds when it comes to blue
states like what's happening here in New
York. What else can the Republicans do?
Well, I I think first of all though that
it's important to remember that you you
know, you can't target just Democratic
voters, right, on this. I mean, if
you're laying off federal employees,
there are plenty of federal employees uh
who live in Republican districts who are
Republicans who voted for the president
who are probably going to be frustrated.
So, I think that's the first point is
that, you know, you can be as targeted
as you want, but you're still going to
end up affecting a a wide swath of of uh
voters than maybe your own voters. And
so I think, you know, how the public and
and the voting public feels about this
is going to be something that's really
really important to watch uh o over the
the next, you know, week or two as this
uh as this plays out. Uh but I think
you're going to continue to see the
administration, you know, target
programs and and uh areas that are
predominantly Democrats. They're going
to try to target Democrat priorities to
uh uh to make this more difficult for
Democrats. But I I think the the flip
side of that is do you end up in a
situation where you're sort of hardening
the Democratic position because it
becomes so transparently political uh
what the administration is doing. So you
know the dynamics of a government
shutdown are always really really
strange. I think this is going to be one
of the stranger ones. Um and we're just
going to have to see how it plays out.
>> Sort of like some of the imagery coming
out of the Oval Office yesterday with
President Trump and the Democratic
leaders. Uh that had sent a pretty
strong message. I guess my question is
you said that some of the hard ball
tactics could harden the Democratic
views. I'm just wondering if you believe
that this could shutdown could go on a
lot longer that markets are currently
pricing in and have a greater
ramification for the economy.
>> Yeah, I I think there's a possibility.
I'm sort of of the view that either this
gets resolved relatively soon like say
sometime next week or it extends for for
quite a while and perhaps you know
through the month of October. Uh and and
I think that's going to really depend on
on where Democrats feel like they can
can come out victorious uh in this. You
know, this this whole battle over uh the
expiring uh enhanced subsidies for
purchasing health insurance through uh
the Affordable Care Act. You know,
that's something that there are
Republicans that are in support of,
particularly in the Senate, where I
think there are Democrats and
Republicans talking behind the scenes
about ways to get that done. The
question is whether even if you've got
some kind of deal in the Senate, could
that pass the House where I think
conservatives are much more uh hardline
against those. So I think there are a
lot of minations that are going on
behind the scenes. Right now those don't
appear to uh involve leadership very
much. Uh but you know, as shutdowns drag
on and the public gets more and more
frustrated, maybe you can get to uh to
some kind of deal in a relatively short
term. But I I do think there's a decent
possibility that this could last for
multiple weeks.
>> Michael, thank you, sir. Michael
Townenden there of Charles Schwab.
That's not where this market is and I
think it's where many people are. Peter
CH of Academy said the same thing
yesterday in a note. He said, "I
wouldn't be surprised if this one lasts
weeks or even months and not days."
>> It really uh is informed by what
happened in March when Chuck Schumer
allowed the government to stay open and
cut a deal with the Republicans and then
it came under scheathing criticism for
having folded not doing enough. And so
you start wondering what is to your
question to your question the idea of
the political blowback? How much is
there? And right now it's unclear.
Nobody's particularly happy. You point
out airlines. I think that you're right.
Well, if it's prolonged travelers is
what's going to do it. When you had the
35day
uh shutdown, Trump's first
administration, the same day the FAA
started closing and talking about delays
in some of major airports is the same
day Trump agreed to a temporary
government funding measure.
>> Most people I know are commuting
travelers.
>> Everyone's a communion.
>> And this is going to make and this is
going to make it that much worse. Coming
up on the program, VTO Spaduto of RBC
Capital Markets on a big year for deal
making
[Music]
4day winning streak on the S&P 500. The
longest daily run in around about 3
weeks. This morning we add to it up
about 210 of 1% on the S&P up around a
third of 1% on the NASDAQ. Up by 4/10 on
the Russell. Lisa talked about
yesterday's bad news being good news for
this bond market across the curve
particularly at the front end. The
return of the so-called bull steepener
two-year yields down a decent chunk.
We're back down to the 350s and this
move for gold. What a move for gold.
Precious metals taking off this year.
We're talking about something like a 50%
move year today. Goldman Sachs, good
friend of this program, Droven said this
in a note. The potential for private
investors to diversify significantly
into gold presents a large upside risk
to a forecast of 4K for mid26 and 4,300
for the end of next year.
>> Well, in fairness, we've gotten to
almost 4K this year, potentially even at
the end of this month. I mean, we've
talked about the biggest month of gains
for gold going back to 2011 in the month
of September. You start wondering why.
Well, it's exactly the dynamic you were
talking about. The front end of the
yield curve is responding to a labor
market. The equity market and risk
assets are responding to something
completely different. You put the two
together and it seems like this economy
is going to be run hot. That's going to
lead to some marginal increase in
inflation and that's going to debase on
the margins the dollar even further.
>> Getting closer and closer to 4K on gold
up again this morning by 0.4%. 3 hours
away from the open. Let's get you some
single names and morning movers. Here's
Vonnie Quinn with more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Yep. I thought I'd start with
Tata because we are waiting for
thirdarter delivery numbers out this
morning. Investors are hoping to be
pleasantly surprised looking for just
under 440,000 deliveries. In fact, now
as we know the stock has been
languishing for part of this year, but
since Elon Musk renewed his focus on the
company, we have seen a nice runup and
again shares pre-market one and a half%.
If we do get something around the
440,000 mark, that would still be a 5%
decline year-over-year and a third
straight quarter of declines, but it
would mean that the company was doing
better than the first half of the year
where we saw sales down 13%.
So, next up, I want to take a look at
Equifax. This is a really interesting
one. Shares plummeting this morning. It
might be getting disintermediated to
some extent from the Fair Isaac
Corporation. So, FICO saying late
yesterday that it's going to start
giving mortgage lenders the option to
calculate and distribute FICO scores
directly to consumers. Now, that's a
threat to companies like Equifax, also
TransUnion and Experian, the three big
uh credit reporting firms, and we're
seeing the halo effect across the
industry this morning. So, we'll see if
those companies can try to change how
they do their business, change their
business model to some extent to meet
this threat from FICO. Fair Isac I
should mention is higher pre-market. And
then Fermy, this is a fascinating one.
This company was just founded in
January, but by former energy secretary
Rick Perry. It's an energy reach and
obviously it's aiming to get in on the
AI energy story. It's developing energy
campuses. It already has 5,000 acres of
land leased from Texas Tech. And just to
let you know, it also refers to itself
as the Donald J. Trump advanced energy
and intelligence campus. So, the story
with this is it IPOed yesterday at $21,
opened at 25, closed the session up 55%
at just over $32 a share. You can see
where it's trading at pre-market. It
also starts trading in London today. And
this all values the market value of this
company at more than $19 billion. Not
bad for a 10-month old startup, right,
Don?
>> Not bad at all. Not bad at all. We'll
have more on that kind of thing in just
a moment. Vonyie, thank you. Thank you
very much. on a radar this morning.
Delaying the data, the Labor Department
confirming the weekly jobless claims
will not be released as scheduled today.
This also puts Friday's crucial payroll
report in serious doubt as the
government shutdown continues.
Elsewhere, the Supreme Court refusing
President Donald Trump's bid to
immediately remove Federal Reserve
Governor Lisa Cook. The order allowing
Cook to keep her seat until the justices
hear her case in January. And finally,
OpenAI is now the world's most valuable
startup after employees selling about
$6.6 billion in stock. That move pushing
OpenAI's valuation to 500 billion,
propelling the Chat GBT owner past Elon
Musk's SpaceX.
>> I love what you were talking about
before that we used to look at who's the
next unicorn at $1 billion. And now I'm
thinking about this sort of flock of
unicorns where there's like squirrels
trying to get rid of them. I mean, at a
certain point, you're wondering at what
point does this indicate froth and at
what point is this worthy given the fact
that chat GPT single-handedly changed
the conversation around AI and
single-handedly changed the investment
structure of a lot of these big tech
giants and single-handedly changed the
concept of what search was on the
internet and is raising questions about
the future of internet as we knew it.
So, on one hand, oh my gosh, froth
bubble. on the other hand, well, it's
kind of a transformative moment,
>> but it does feel kind of like a bubble
when earlier this year this valuation
was at 300 billion and now we're October
and it's 500 billion. It's pretty
incredible. But also comes at a time
when people are saying this might be the
right strategy if you don't want to go
for an IPO cuz it's a way to make sure
you're also retaining top talent cuz
they are getting some of this money back
and you want to retain some of your best
when you have the likes of Meta pulling
out what million-dollar contracts.
>> Do you remember Long Island Iced Tea? We
talked about this just last week.
remember when they renamed themselves?
>> I remember for lots of reasons on the
end. Do you remember that? Yes, I do.
>> Do you remember that? They put
blockchain on the end of the name and
there was this big rally for those kind
of stocks. I remember having that
conversation at the time and someone
correctly pointed out to me, don't allow
that the craziness to distract you from
the real things that are going on. And
my response to some of that is don't
allow the real things that are going on
to validate and justify some of the
crazy stuff happening elsewhere. And I
think you've got to draw a distinction
at the moment between both. Part of the
problem is this is sort of a science
fiction moment. So people don't know
what to believe. I'm just thinking back
to the Long Island Iced Tea blockchain
and think about Overstock, a furniture
company, a furniture reseller that put
blockchain in its name that said the
word blockchain and suddenly it was oh
my god the furniture is going to be on
blockchain. At a certain point you are
absolutely correct. I think a lot of
people are suspending belief because
they don't understand the parameters of
what kind of sea change we're in.
>> Some real things going on particularly
over at OpenAI. What a valuation.
Elsewhere, the AI fueled frenzy in
capital markets driving record
valuations and sparking a wave of deals.
Investors weighing whether the M&A
sprint will sustain its pace. Joining us
now to discuss the head of RBC capital
markets, US VTO Speduto VTO, good
morning. It's good to see you, sir.
>> Great to see you, Jonathan.
>> Thanks for being here, buddy. 6 months
today since Liberation Day. I don't know
where the time has gone. Can you
describe what it was like then and
compare capital market activity now? It
it's it's uh it's been three quarters of
what feels like three years to be
honest. So I think at the beginning of
the year one of the things we published
was we said that we expected that you
know everybody would came into the year
with a a lot of euphoria expecting
significant deal flow very uh much of a
significant upside less regulation and
we always said well calm down you know
first Trump administration uh it took
about 12 months to get to a place where
everybody was comfortable and kind of
knew how to manage in that environment.
We thought that it was going to take
about six months this year, not a full
12 months. And certainly that played out
and if you look at the different
quarters uh up until liberation day and
just right after it, you know, there was
some concern. But if you look at the
volume of transactions, um so right now
we sit about up 28 to 30% whether you're
looking at the US or globally in terms
of announced M&A volumes. It's all being
driven by larger transactions that are
up somewhere between 50 and 65%. again
depending whether you look in the US or
globally. What's interesting is the
three summer months, June, July, and
August were each uh in total up 55%. So,
you just saw a sprint to to the races
starting in June. Um and it's continued
into September. I think that, you know,
we were talking about whether the rate
cut was going to drive more M&A, and you
know, my response was always, well, it's
already happening. I'm I'm not sure that
we're thinking about that. and and
obviously the news this week, you know,
there's the question of does this
shutdown impact things and you know,
again, I think there's still a good
amount of activity.
>> Do you consider this activity just the
consequence of pent-up demand? Old ideas
that have been delayed or are these new
ideas? Is this new business? Is this the
start of things to come?
>> Well, I I think it is a lot of pent-up
demand. Um, I think we came into the
year with the conditions being very
positive for the markets, very positive
from a transaction perspective. Um and
there were some self-inflicted wounds in
terms of we had to get through some of
what the government's trying to do on
different policy. Um and I think now
that the companies are feeling more
comfortable with where they are and you
know feeling more confident and aligned
between say the seuite and the boards so
that they can actually make decisions.
They're going back and re-evaluating
transactions they've considered for some
time. And so I would tell you when
you're seeing some of these large
announcements that have been happening,
um those are transactions that have been
considered for some time. It's not, you
know, just waking up one day and going,
well, the next week I'm going to go and
acquire this business. It's really,
okay, we've looked at it before. Now,
let's reevaluate in the current
conditions. Um, our board is very
educated on this potential opportunity
because we've kept them up to date.
They're fully informed on the
opportunity, but let's update it to
today's conditions. Oh, now it aligns
and makes sense. So now let's figure out
how to finance it, how to structure it,
how to make it work in this regulatory
environment. Oh, the regulators are
allowing larger opportunities. How do we
position for that?
>> Do you like the idea that more of it
comes in debt in terms of the financing?
>> I I'm not sure if I would say more of it
comes in debt. Uh I would say that it's
structured to what the appetite of the
market is,
>> which is debt.
>> Well, it it is debt, but I also think
that um you know, look, I I've been at
this for over three decades. I've seen
when the debt component was even much
larger than it is today and then it
pulls back to what's more reasonable. I
think corporates are much better
prepared today than they were say when
we're in the global financial crisis or
10 years ago because they understood
what happened when their balance sheets
weren't as nimble. And so I think
they're they have more cash on their
balance sheets. They're able to borrow
at better rates. Um, and even with the
rates being higher than they were, say,
you know, it's still a situation where
they're at all-time levels in many
cases.
>> I wonder how much of the M&A activity is
being driven by the idea that big
companies have benefit right now. They
are better able to uh be resilient in
the face of supply shocks. They're
better able to negotiate deals. They're
better able to uh potentially get
economies of scale. It seems like there
is an emphasis on that now in a way
that's different than say even 10 or 20
years ago. How much is that driving some
of this?
>> Well, I think the the key word you said
was is resilience. Um I think they're
better able to manage their their
businesses um adapt quickly to external
conditions. And so when they're faced
with something that they haven't faced
before, I mean look, five years ago we
went through COVID and so we went
through something that had never
happened before. Businesses shut down
for a period of time. They weren't able
to do business. they had to quickly
adapt. They've learned now they need to
be able to plan for various um
forward-looking um uh markets and and
and businesses and be able to be
prepared depending on what's thrown at
them. And so I look at the large
corporates, they're probably best
positioned in that than they've ever
been in the time I've been in this
business. And so as a result, you're
able to make decisions quicker. You're
able to move when windows open. I mean,
right now we're telling clients that the
remainder of this year and into the
first half of next year, we feel pretty
good about the market conditions in
terms of driving activity. Um, and you
know, I when I look at it, it's, you
know, the things that could derail it
are some of the external noise and do
you stop and listen to that noise?
Right? The the shutdown this week, if it
gets cleared quickly, it'll be a blip.
Right? even the the shutdown in 2018
2019 yes markets came down they came
back and went even higher afterwards and
so I think businesses are prepared to
get through it now if we go through a
longer period and all of a sudden we get
through the end of October and the Fed
is making decisions blind without data
that they would normally look to and
does that cause uh companies and boards
to say let's take a pause and and wait
on this decision and and I think that's
the other key thing I is things a
business and activity is not going away.
It's more of a pause. So, it's kind of
moving to the right. And so, Jonathan,
when you say pent-up demand, it's like,
well, I've just been waiting to to to
act execute on that transaction. I
haven't put it that, you know, on the
shelf.
>> So, could the shutdown work as a
catalyst potentially the way the April
2nd liberation day worked in terms of
having businesses hit pause?
Um I I think it could a little bit. I I
again it'll depend on what we see going
forward. Right now it looks like um and
you know I was talking to uh one of my
favorite analysts Lori Calvacina last
night and I asked her about poly
markets. I said has poly market made a a
bit a market yet on how long this
shutdown's going to be? And I think the
the um the leader in the clubhouse right
now is uh October 15th or later which is
kind of interesting. And so she, you
know, very nicely pinged me about that
last night. I I think that um you know,
look, I I worry about it being too long.
Um I I do get concerned in one way about
the shutdown, which is it does hurt the
IPO market. And so if I think about
transactions, often times you want, you
know, if you're selling something and
you're able to go public, that's a
viable competitive alternative that you
want to hold out there. And so having
less alternatives makes it a more
difficult market to execute.
>> Can we spread the love a little bit?
Lori, Francis, Amy, just so people don't
get jealous over RBC.
>> I spend a ton of time with Francis and
Amy and Lori. And you're doing great and
it's all good. You're out of trouble
now.
>> There's only so many I can throw out.
>> But so many different favorites, VTO,
thank you. You're one of our favorites.
Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Vto
Speduto there of RBC Capital Markets.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The European Union
is planning to boost tariffs on steel
imports. The European Commission will
propose a long-term mechanism to reduce
existing quotas for foreign steel and
impose a new tariff rate on imports
beyond those quotas. The EU steel
industry has faced a severe crisis due
to cheap imports from Asia and increased
tariffs imposed by the US.
President Trump says he will meet with
Chinese President Xi at the end of the
month for discussions on trade. Trump
posted on social media saying that
soybeans will be a major topic of
discussion with the crop remaining a key
sticking point. China hasn't bought any
soybean cargo from the current harvest,
instead relying on Argentina and Brazil
as retaliation for Trump's tariffs.
Two Delta Airlines regional jets
reportedly collided at low speed while
taxiing at New York's LaGuardia Airport
on Wednesday night. According to an ABC
affiliate, no injuries have been
reported. This is the latest in a string
of incidents at LaGuardia in recent
months that have prompted federal safety
probes. And that is your boomer grief,
John.
>> Nope. Only thank you. So your face, too.
>> Don't want anything to do with that
stuff.
>> I was just thinking about the kromagins,
the traveling communions. I mean, that
just sort of adds to that joy that you
feel when you get
>> Every time there's an airline story,
it's never a good one.
>> Well, but the truth is we're publicizing
more of them now. They happen all the
time. I don't know if that should be
comforting or not so much, but you know.
Yeah. I'm not not
>> I'm not taking much comfort in any of
it. Okay. Up next on the program,
signals in the data adding up.
>> These surveys are are given a consistent
signal that we are seeing some um some
more concerning weakness in the labor
market. We think that means the Federal
Reserve uh has room to cut interest
rates here.
>> A conversation up next with Kelsey
Barrow of JP Morgan.
[Music]
We got baseball bands. Want to do
baseball bands?
>> I like when Veto left the studio saying
the only shutdown he likes when the
Yankees shut down the Boston Red Sox,
which we did last night. Fantastic game.
So that's game
>> and was there so I'm a little jealous.
>> When's game three
>> tonight? Do you want to go?
>> Okay. No, I don't.
>> I'm looking for someone to go with.
>> Okay. If anyone's listening and would
like to go to the baseball. Maybe you
have a suite. I don't know.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't think you can accept that.
>> All right. Okay. Let's move on very
quickly. Equity futures on the S&P 500
positive by a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ
up by 0.4. Under surveus this morning,
signals in the data adding up.
These surveys are are given a consistent
signal that we are seeing some um some
more concerning weakness in the labor
market. We think that means the Federal
Reserve uh has room to cut interest
rates here. They are they still have
rates that are above neutral. Getting
back to that uh is very reasonable. We
think they cut interest rates uh you
know a couple of more times this year.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Traders betting the Fed will cut
interest rates twice this year after
private sector payrolls unexpectedly
dropped in September. Cassie Barrow of
JP Morgan Asset Management writing,
"Recent labor market data confirms that
Slack is still growing. A soft labor
market justifies additional rate cuts by
the Fed." Cassie joins us now for more.
Cassie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Do we not need NFP tomorrow or claims
today we're just on a one-way street
another rate cut? I
>> I think we probably are. Um I'm sitting
here looking at the echo screen kind of
longingly uh knowing that we're not
going to be receiving that data. Yeah, I
mean it's a bit of a a strange feeling.
Um, but I do think that we have enough
corroborating evidence. Um, whether it
be in the ADP data or whether it be in
surveys like the conference board has
the jobs labor differential, so jobs
easy versus hard to get. Those are all
really trending very similarly in the
same direction which is slowing. Um,
we're seeing it on the private sector
side. We have risk of more job cuts on
the public sector side coming depending
on how this government shutdown uh
evolves. Um and so I I do think that um
you know the Fed still views policy as
at least modestly restrictive and so
there's space to cut rates um at least
through the end of the year uh and then
pause and reevaluate.
>> In the quote we used use the word slack.
Now we've certainly had a step down in
payroll's growth. Have we really seen an
increase in slack? Two kind of different
things. One can inform the other but
given the supply side developments that
we've seen over the past year how are
you measuring where we are with the
slack story? No, I mean that that is a
really good question and I think one of
the reasons why the market has been
taking the slowdown in jobs growth in
stride. Now, the reason that I'm
skeptical that we can just uh dismiss
the slowdown in jobs growth as
exclusively a function of falling labor
supply and falling immigration is when I
look at those surveys of consumers,
whether it be the New York Fed or the
Conference Board, if this was all about
just slowing hiring because there wasn't
uh immigrants to fill the roles, then
why would respondents be saying that
it's so hard to find a job, particularly
those of the lowest income and lowest
education level, which is also alo the
area where immigrants tend to be the
highest share um um non-legal immigrants
tend to be the highest share of
employment. So to me, you know, I think
that there is evidence that it's not
just a labor supply story and it is a
labor demand story and there is
legitimate reason to to be uh protecting
against the downside risk to jobs.
>> I buy the story about real weakness in
the labor market. You look at the quits
data and you look at how much the quits
rates come down. A lot of it verifies
this idea. It's not so great to get a
new job. It's not terrible, but it's not
so great. I just wonder if rate cuts are
the answer given the fact that financial
conditions are as easy as can be. And
ultimately, what rate cuts are supposed
to do is prompt investment from
companies that already are investing at
some of the fastest paces that we've
seen in years.
>> Yeah. So, this is a a really interesting
point about investment. Um, so what I've
been doing recently is really trying to
understand this dichotomy between the
strong growth data, the strong GDP data,
and the weak labor market data. And what
I think people, not in the equity
market, they're definitely appreciating
this, but but on the bond market side,
you know, I you've you've mentioned that
it seems like the bond market is looking
at the labor market data and
interpreting it as this is a bad sign.
The Fed's going to need to cut rates
more, while risk assets are saying it's
great. The Fed is cutting rates and
growth is still fine. Layoffs are still
low. What we've noticed is you know the
GDP data has been very highly
concentrated in the AI sectors. So if
you look at software investment uh inter
uh intellectual property investment
those are running around a 30%
annualized rate in the first half of the
year if you exclude those GDP growth is
actually pretty pretty muted pretty
close to to zero and more in line with
the labor market data. So it does go
some of the way in explaining some of
that divergence.
>> Yeah. But if you overlay the idea of
rate cuts and trying to juice the rest
of the economy through the monetary
policy mechanism, isn't the risk of a
bubble or a risk of some sort of excess
that much greater given the fact that
everyone is betting on this and saying,
"Look, they've got our backs. We can buy
anything and we can pay whatever we want
for it and we'll be made whole."
>> I don't think that that's a new
phenomenon. Um I think we have have
experienced a series of shocks over the
last five years since COVID where
policymakers have shown to the market
time and time again that they're willing
to step in with unique and
unconventional policies uh to backs stop
things and so far so far they've been
successful.
>> Are we breaking down the traditional
correlation between the labor market and
credit? How does this all shape your
views about what's happening with fixed
income on the credit side?
>> Yeah. Uh and and this does go to this
idea that, you know, we talk about the
K-shaped consumer, but there's also a
Kshape in terms of businesses, you know,
and when we're talking about uh capital
markets and IPOs and all of the M&A and
the and all of those discussions you
were just having with the last guest,
you know, that's only a subset of
America. And when you look at the
majority of hiring in America, it's done
by small businesses. And so our credit
analysts continue to look at that subset
that is linked to public markets,
capital markets, can raise debt, um, you
know, by investors here in asset
management and their balance sheets are
solid. So I do understand, you know, why
those spreads are tight because of those
those fundamentals. um they have the
flexibility to maintain their operating
margins. It's just a question of the
halves and have nots because if you're a
smaller company, you don't have that
flexibility to manage supply chains and
to absorb the cost of tariffs like the
small companies. And that's why you see
in the ADP data yesterday, the only area
where jobs were growing was in companies
with 500 or more employees. The rest of
the economy was seeing job losses.
>> Two different worlds. Kelsey, great
explanation. Good to see you as always.
Thank you. Kelsey Bar of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Coming up next, Sarah Hunt
of Alpine Sax and Woods. Krishna Goa of
Evercore, Yolena Sherva of the
Conference Board, Mike Pal of Black
Rockck. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around a corner.
[Music]
>> This is a year full of disruptions,
contradictions. The market is in a very
strong place.
>> That sort of streak of upgrades, that's
the most bullish thing that you can
imagine.
>> You need the pockets of irrationality,
but you ultimately need rationality to
prevail.
>> There's still money that can be dragged
kicking and screaming into this market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> If you heard this little voice going out
to commercial breaks ago,
>> that was the most halfbaked goats I've
ever heard. cuz they're so bad.
>> Honestly,
>> Steve Cohen, if you're there this
morning, good morning. I hope you didn't
witness that.
>> Ridiculous.
>> You got any more pride than that?
>> Well, it's not about pride. It's about I
had to sort of defend after the just
evisceration. I mean,
>> go Mets is your way of defending.
>> Frankly, at this point, that's about as
good as I can get right now. Yes, that's
correct. Let's
>> Let's start again from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good
morning. The second down of Bloomberg
Savannah. It starts right now. And your
price action looks like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive up a
tenth of 1% following a 4-day winning
streak coming into October. First
trading day all-time high as we add some
weight to the rally in the bond market.
Yields down at the front end of the
curve across the curve through
yesterday's session off the back of
worst than expected data. Both ADP is
manufacturing not too great either.
2-year bond yields this morning 354. As
for the economic data, what you will
get? What you won't get? What you
probably won't get is jobless claims
later this morning at 8:30 Eastern time.
And likewise for payrolls tomorrow
morning. What you will get ISM services
is going to take on even more importance
going into the weekend.
>> Yeah. I just wonder how much the
market's going to really respond to bad
data. And when I talk about the market,
I'm talking about equities because right
now bad data seems to signal to bond
market risk on. And it sort of in terms
of buy uh bonds and at the same time it
signals to stocks buy stocks because
bonds are rallying. So yay. It seems
like there are two different tracks
right now. And I just wonder to your
point whether ISM services is different
from the labor market and indicate
something more about consumer appetite
that could filter in to equity appetite.
>> We're not getting the data this week and
I think the big question is are we going
to get the data in the next two weeks?
Are we going to get CPI on October 15th?
How long is this government shutdown
going to last? At the moment no one's
blinking. The Republicans aren't
blinking and the Democrats aren't
blinking. What the Republicans are doing
though is they are making it incredibly
uncomfortable to try to bring the
Democrats to the table when it comes to
freezing. talking about layoffs,
freezing of funds and layoffs, things
like this. But does that backfire? And
if it does, we could be here for a much
longer time.
>> Lisa said this yesterday, and I think
you're absolutely right. It's not just
that this data might be delayed. The
data points we are getting this week
might be the last clean data points we
get for maybe a couple of months.
>> Yeah. And here's the problem. It's
muddied by a lot of the data that
already has been revised. I'm thinking
about even ADP. It came out two
consecutive months of job contractions.
Oh my goodness. falling off a cliff. But
but to use Libby Cantrol's phrase, we're
looking at a revision based on the
quarterly household survey that probably
was overestimating how much of a
downgrade. People are parsing through
this and saying it probably doesn't
matter, but the bond market says, "Let's
rally anyway because that's going to be
what the Fed uses." I just wonder how
long this can continue for the bond
market to rally on one thing. For the
stock market to to completely ignore
that weakness, rally on something else
without anything breaking down. If
you're at the Federal Reserve and you've
got a bias to cut interest rates right
now, I think you've still got a bias to
cut interest rates at the end of this
month. If you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
on the S&P positive here by 0.2%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods as Wall
Street shrugs off the shutdown. Chris
Nagua of Ever with data delays muddying
the Fed's waters and Mike Pile of Black
Rockck as big tech investments make the
US the AI leader. We begin this hour
with stocks reaching record highs
despite the chaos on Capitol Hill. Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods writing,
"The government shutdown may or may not
impact a raft of data. For investors,
this may be the trickiest part, at least
in the near term." Sarah joins us now
for more. Sarah, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Do you think this will hold back risk
appetite this month? No sign of that
just yet. Do you think it will?
>> It depends a lot on how long everything
takes and what kind of data comes out in
the interim and sort of and the kickoff
of Q3 earning season, right? So, all
these things are going to be important.
Earning season is going to take on even
more importance if we have a lack of
government data because people want to
see what companies say. But I think this
morning the the news on uh chat GBT was
was one of those open AI was one of
those things that certainly helps the
situation and doesn't hurt it.
>> Just build on that a little bit more.
Why does it help the situation sitting
here this morning and understanding that
you've got this private company staying
private worth $500 billion. Why does
that help?
>> It helps because the question has been
all along this AI has been fueling this
rally, right? take that out and all of a
sudden the statistics do not look nearly
as good. And if you see cracks in that
story with the other problems that are
going on, I think you have issues. The
fact that you saw a data point that's
positive, take it as you want, whether
or not that's too bubbly or whether or
not it's anything else. The bottom line
is people are willing to put up some
serious money to be a part of that story
and that's still the case. That is going
to help the equity markets just because
it underlies that foundation and it
gives it more confidence.
>> So don't fight AI. Is there increasingly
a feeling in your mind, don't fight the
Fed in terms of supporting the rest of
the nonAI universe that hasn't fared as
well? Well, I think the Fed had a very
tough has a very tough job going into
the next couple of months. A lack of
data doesn't help it at all. And yet, to
your point, the ADP numbers, people are
going to look at that. They're going to
look at any non-government data that
comes out because until we get
government data out, you don't have
enough information. But directionally
speaking, I think that that one of the
reasons you saw that happen yesterday is
that people thought, well, this is
another excuse to cut rates. Whether or
not that actually solves any problems or
does what it's supposed to do is another
question, but the idea that it's coming
is still positive for equity markets.
>> I just wonder how long you can
turbocharge growth before inflation
becomes a problem. A lot of people have
said it's not. And at the same time, you
start thinking if we're already above
that 2% target and you add juice to what
already is a strong economy, albeit
concentrated in AI, doesn't that become
a real concern later this year? Well, I
still don't think that we've seen the
true dynamics of the tariff pricing in
pricing, right? So whether or not that's
going to come in as the price level
raised or it's inflation, I don't think
that that's really come through. You've
seen big waves of inventory every time
there's been a pullback in timing on
those tariffs. So the companies have
been absorbing a lot. There's a point at
which that flips, that script flips, and
I don't know where we are with that yet.
But as that sort of comes in, I don't
see how it can be beneficial.
>> So what are you worried about now?
because you don't sound like you're that
worried about a bubble when it comes to
AI. You don't sound that worried about a
government shutdown.
>> I worry about a lot of things. I I I
wouldn't go so far as to say I'm not
worried about a bubble. But the problem
with that is that bubbles can go on a
lot longer than we can think about
whether or not they should. And if there
is enough real money chasing that right
now as opposed to the whole argument
about debt and debtor financing that
came back around with that big deal,
right? So, as long as there is as long
as people are putting up money to help
solve that problem, I think it's less of
an issue. I think it becomes one when
people start to worry about whether or
not there's any actual productivity
that's going to come out of this,
efficiency that's going to come out of
this. And I think that that's still one
of those questions that we're struggling
with.
>> It's a good point. The end of the '9s
when Greenspan talked about rational
exuberance, we had a bull market run for
four years. But how do you time it?
That is a great question and that is the
problem because you only see that in
retrospect when people finally start to
look back and go you know what we were
wrong at X point at Y point at Zpoint.
Right now we're still looking at that
and saying there's still a lot of
promise. We collectively as investors
I'm not speaking about us just generally
personally but the investment community
is willing to look at that and say that
there's a whole wave coming and even
though you know there will be
inefficiencies in that wave people
aren't sure where they're going to be
yet. So at some point it starts to be
cluji where you don't get some people
coming out and saying this is helping
our margins this is doing that for us.
We need to see that come through and
that's still a promise right now and
market loves a good story.
>> There seems to be some great division
over the balance of risk. I think the
Fed's got one view and the market's got
another. The Federal Reserve believes
the biggest risk right now is downside
risk to employment and a lot of people
in markets are coming around to the idea
that the biggest risk might be upside
risk to inflation. And they're chasing
that because the Fed's going to respond
to one and not the other. This is what
Torson's lock of Apollo said just
yesterday. Upside risk to inflation are
growing particularly if the Fed
continues to cut interest rates and he
believes his whole profession continue
to underestimate this economy and the
resilience of it. Are you coming around
to that side of things as well?
>> Well, it's interesting because the
resilience of the economy also bakes in
a number of things, you know. So, Kelsey
Barrow was just talking about the
difference between big corporations and
small corporations. So, it bakes in a
lot of positive movements across the
entire strata. I don't know that the
entire strata is performing that well,
but from markets perspective, it doesn't
really matter. Lower-end consumers
aren't doing that well. Stock market
doesn't mind. They don't spend the most
money anyway. If you can continue to see
cash flow in those big companies, it's
less of an issue than if Main Street is
struggling on the smaller side. So, it
really does depend. But I do think that
inflation is an issue and I do think
that it could be a bigger issue going
forward. But if we're not going to get
some of that data, it makes it easier to
ignore. On the other hand, I think that
it is definitely something that
continues to flow through and that's
going to be tricky because what happens
with that is you fix margins by getting
rid of people and then the labor
question becomes even more problematic
and then the Fed is in a very difficult
place which I sort of think they are
anyway.
>> I'm looking at where to buy gold bars
right now and I'm wondering I mean
there's Costco. There are places though
they limit how much you can buy. You
have to be a member and then it's only
one bar per uh person. I'm looking at
this. How much is that sort of the
solution increasingly for people? I know
that you say that personally uh is one
thing, but increasingly how mainstream
is that type of investing really
becoming?
>> Well, I think that gold and to some
degree Bitcoin and I wouldn't call gold
Bitcoin, you know, digital gold or
anything else, but they are ways to
express an opinion that the system
itself is going to have some problems
and that government all all currencies
are going to have to devalue against
something, right? So, gold is one of
those things that people look at and
say, I can buy gold. it's going to it
doesn't matter if it's a if it's a Euro
US thing or if it's a Japan US thing. I
know that if currencies are going to be
devalued, I've got something that should
rise in value. And whether or not that's
a truism or people argue it or it's
just, you know, people are chasing it,
central banks are going back to buying
gold to some degree, they certainly seem
to have been on the non OECD side. So, I
think that there is room for that to
move because it hasn't moved in so very
long. And we just topped
inflationadjusted gold prices in the 70s
and 80s. And that is one of those, you
know, technical
markers that people look for.
>> Well, is that something where you're
starting to credibly look at that as a
real slice of the sort of more
riskaverse side of the portfolio in a
way that you hadn't before?
>> Well, I think the tricky thing is that
after it's had such a big run, it almost
seems difficult to say now this is the
time to go ahead and say that this
should be a part of your portfolio. If
it was before, you're feeling pretty
good about it. if it isn't now you're
looking at that going can I jump in here
and buy something that's elevated so
much and I think this goes back to all
risk assets are going in one direction
and whether or not that can continue and
I it's difficult to jump in and say yes
I want to put a chunk of something in
that asset that's run that much but you
could certainly layer in a little bit
and see what happens so that it gives
you a chance to layer in a little bit
more just because it's an opposite to
larger financial systems
>> another record high creeping up towards
4K 6 day winning streak up almost 48%
send today which is just wild. Sarah,
thank you. Sarah Hunt there of Vampire
Saxon words going up again this morning.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Vonyie Quinn. Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Trump is
seeking deals in 20 to 30 critical
industries ahead of the 2026 midterms.
Reuters is reporting pharmaceutical
executives at Eli Lilly, Fizer and
Astroenica are getting near daily calls
from White House staff. The deals would
include taking equity stakes and
offering regulatory relief in exchange
for concessions.
Intel is reportedly in talks to add
fellow chipmaker AMD as a customer for
its manufacturing business. Semaphore is
reporting that the companies are in
early stage discussions about having AMD
rely on Intel. AMD currently depends on
Taiwan's semiconductor for much of its
manufacturing needs.
The US Supreme Court refused to allow
President Trump to immediately oust
Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Cook as
she sues to keep her job. The court's
order means Cook can remain in her
position until at least January when the
justices will issue a new ruling after
hearing arguments over her alleged
mortgage fraud. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next on the program, Flying
Blind. Supply side dynamics are very
different this time around than they've
been any time over the past few decades.
This means we're flying by blind in a
highly foggy environment and this is
very risky.
>> In just a moment, we'll cash out with
Krishna of Abacor to get his view on
things and Mike McKe will break down the
data you will get and the data you won't
get in just a moment. From New York City
this morning, good morning.
[Music]
Stocks are up following a 4-day winning
streak. We're up again by 210 of 1% on
the S&P on the Nasdaq 100, up by 0.5, up
by 0.4 on the Russell 2000. Under Surve
this morning, we're flying blind.
We are still in the midst of an
environment where there are a number of
supply shocks affecting the economy. Too
many people are still reading the
economy as if we're guided by demand
shocks. This is not the case. Supply
side dynamics are very different this
time around than they've been any time
over the past few decades. This means
we're flying by blind in a highly foggy
environment and this is very risky. So
here's the latest this morning. US
economic data at risk of being delayed
due to the ongoing government shutdown.
The Labor Department already sharing
jobless claims will not be released
later this morning. So what will you
get? What won't you get? Here's Mike
McKe with more. Morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, what won't we
get will outweigh what will we get and
it's going to be hard for the next week
or so for the Fed and for investors to
really get a good picture of what's
going on in the economy. What won't we
get? Well, we're not going to get
jobless claims as you mentioned today.
Not going to get factory orders either.
And the big one, September payrolls, is
going to be delayed to some point. Uh
Tuesday, the trade balance is not going
to come out. On Thursday, once again,
jobless claims and then wholesale
inventories. It's not a big week next
week. So, it's not as bad as it could
be, but it is definitely uh bad news
that we're not getting tomorrow's
numbers. What will we get? Well, there
are a few things on the private sector
side that are coming out. ISM services
will be out on Friday. The New York Fed
inflation expectations number is out
Tuesday. And then next Friday, the
University of Michigan sentiment. going
to be interesting to see what Americans
say about all that. And just because we
got nothing else to do, the Fed is
stepping in and is going to have a lot
of Fed speak next week so that uh we can
keep up with their thinking on all of
this. Uh almost something every day. Uh
today, Logan and Goulby. Tomorrow
Williams, Logan, Jefferson, and Myron.
Tuesday, Myron and Qashqari. And as you
can see, uh, more on Wednesday and
Thursday, including the Fed minutes from
the last meeting may take on a little
bit of extra import because there's
nothing else.
>> Mike, as you know, we've got a low
confidence consumer, but we've got a
high confidence investor and we're
seeing companies or at least investors
in companies get excited about a
prospect of growth in 2026. Now, you'd
expect that to correspond with hiring
intentions, Mike, and I just wonder
whether the economic data is
contradicting that message. Well, the
data we're getting so far suggests that
it is in the sense that companies just
aren't hiring. Challenger, Gray, and
Christmas with their job cuts
announcements also announces hiring
plans. And they're reporting in
September uh that companies announced
plans to add 117,313
jobs. That's down 71% from a year ago.
It also suggests that they are going to
hire fewer people for the holidays. It's
the lowest since 2011. Uh the uh from
January through September, hiring plans
are uh the lowest since 2009.
So right now, companies are not hiring,
not firing as many people. Hirings were
down 25% but uh the number of people who
were going to get hired very low still.
>> Mike, stay close. Always good to catch
up. Mike McKe breaking down the economic
data you will get and probably won't
get. Chris Lura of Ever is looking for a
rate cut month end. He says this, "Our
further lean into October reflects the
even lower probability post shutdown,
the Fed will get enough reassurance on
labor market to reign in the soft
default of successive cuts through the
end of 25." Krishna joins us now for
more. Krishna, welcome to the program,
sir. When do those decisions start to
become a closer call, start to get just
that little bit harder?
>> Well, look, right now you could actually
make the case against the baseline 25
basis point cut in October in two
directions, right? You could say well
you know growth might be picking up the
markets are looking strong uh the jolts
and other data hasn't official data
hasn't shown any break the downside so
what's the hurry with a cut you can make
the argument the other way looked a bit
scary uh yesterday perhaps labor market
weakness is intensifying and maybe we
should consider a 50 I think the reality
is 25 in October is just a very very
solid default. I think that the meeting
that is up for grabs is December and the
question will be what does the
cumulative information between now and
then tell us relative to what is still a
baseline further 25 in December? Is it
suggesting an accumulation of risk to
the upside or an accumulation of risk to
the downside? Otherwise, you're going to
get that 25 followed by the 25.
>> Krishna, a lot of people agree with you.
The markets agree with you and right now
it's don't fight the Fed by brisk and I
wonder financial conditions matter when
stocks are going down. Financial
conditions don't matter when stocks are
going up. Is this essentially a Fed put
where the Fed does not care as long as
things are not weakening about cutting
rates and what that does to potentially
elevating asset prices.
>> Right. So, so, uh, what we've been
emphasizing is that this is an
incredibly riskfriendly moment because
of this growth labor divergence where it
sort of looks like the growth side uh is
is fine, even maybe firming a bit,
although we need to keep an eye on
segments of the consumer. On the other
side, the labor side is at a minimum
soggy and perhaps weakening more. Fed
taking its queue from the labor side is
going to cut into that uh that you know
decent perhaps improving outlook on the
growth side. There's nothing not to like
about that from an investor perspective.
Now the question is as you said does uh
does the fact of a bullant market then
come back into the Fed's reaction
function? I think we heard loud and
clear from Powell's latest remarks on
this that they have their essentially
their hands full uh balancing between
employment risk and inflation risk and
financial markets uh while in some level
always factored into their deliberations
just can't drive the bus in this moment.
Uh so I think you know the market wasn't
quite sure to make of those comments by
pal I think about a week ago but I think
it made it very clear that they are
focused on employment risk relative to
inflation risk and if making the right
call in their eyes on that macro risk
management is associated with markets
going up that's all right by then
>> at this point I wonder about the
K-shaped consumer then and what this
means for spending early next year and
thus inflation if you have the wealthier
consumer seeing their 401ks seeing their
portfolios going to the moon as a result
of this policy. How much does that juice
spending and juice the inflationary
momentum under the market heading into
2026?
>> Well, we actually think this is a
K-shaped economy in two respects. First,
the one that you absolutely correctly
identified the, you know, the upper end
consumer with the wealth effects versus
the low to middle end consumer with less
uh labor income growth adjusted for for
inflation. But there's also a K-shaped
uh a recovery in terms of business
sectors, right? You have the AI related
sectors uh strong for secular reasons.
You have the other sectors weighed down
by uncertainty, by the drag from
tariffs, by weak labor supply, which
also of course weak growth in the number
of consumers for many businesses. So you
have a K-shaped rec you know economy in
two really core dimensions. Now as we
look into next year in a sense the
question is well how does that K-shape
resolve itself? Does it resolve itself a
with other sectors gradually firming as
uncertainty recedes and some of the tax
impacts support the economy or does the
kshape uh you know collapse the other
way with AI spending perhaps plateauing
uh and therefore no longer fueling that
that growth or in fact do we continue to
see that sectoral divergence and then in
terms of the consumer you know is the
consumer staying driven by asset prices
then you're going to keep that cake or
are we going to see that some broadening
of economic growth feeding into more
hiring as uncertainty recedes. I think a
key question is whether as uncertainty
moderates which we assume it will uh
moderate is there a handoff from
uncertainty to spreading AI productivity
impacts which mean that the growth side
remains relatively soft relative to
growth in 2026.
That's the environment of course that
would take this very risk-friendly
moment into a much more risk-friendly
secular phase as we were a companies
were able to profit from growth without
having to add labor and of course
because the labor side would be soggy in
that scenario the Fed would still be
able to deliver further rate cuts next
year.
>> Christian besides the lack of data we're
going to get because of the shutdown.
What do you think the impact's going to
be? Neil Duta put out this note saying
it's doesn't feel like it might be the
same song and dance. He says it's coming
at a fragile time and some government
workers might actually save more, maybe
not spend because they're concerned
about a prolonged shutdown.
>> So I think you're completely right that
you know this isn't shall we say
unfamiliar um you know political
situation in just so many respects uh in
the US right now. And so we've got to be
careful you know not to be too sanguin
just based on you know historic track
records. With that said, my colleagues
who are expert in this area are
relatively optimistic that we might be
able to get the shutdown resolved within
a week or two because there are
incentives pushing particularly this
more moderate folks in the Senate
towards compromise in both direction. On
the Republican side, I think there is
some anxiety that they could end up
getting pinned for this uh shutdown and
a recognition that actually they may
need to uh to fix some of the uh
Medicare uh you know um the medical
subsidies uh otherwise that'll be an
electoral problem for them in the
midterms. On the Democratic side, real
concern about federal layoffs uh and a
more extended shutdown in that
direction. So we are cautiously
optimistic that in spite of all the
poison in Washington right now and some
degree sadly in the country at large uh
that more likely or not we actually will
the basic forces of compromise will push
the two together uh you know perhaps on
a once two year two week type time frame
but I certainly wouldn't exclude the
alternative
>> Krishna clinic as always thank you sir
Krishna go there of ever ISI on a
federal reserve and just why this is
such a riskfriendly moment for financial
markets Up next, Yolena Chilva of the
Conference Board as the labor market
braces for possible layoffs.
[Music]
Chrisa of Abacore was absolutely
fantastic just moments ago about why
this moment is so risk friendly. We
talked about the corporate earnings
labor market divergence. One is strong,
the other is weak. And the Fed is
responding to one and not the other.
Which is why so many people are
comfortable chasing asset price
inflation right now. And why one of the
trades of this year has been to be long
stocks and long gold.
>> Yeah. Because ultimately stocks is a
play on AI, but it's also a play on the
idea that the Fed doesn't care about
market conditions as long as the
market's going up. Financial conditions
only become an issue when markets go
down. Money printer, let's do its thing.
Markets keep going up. 4 day winning
streak on the S&P 500. Let's make it day
five. Up by two ten of 1% on the S&P. Do
you want the sound effect with that?
>> It's got a B on the front. The meme has
a B on the front.
>> He was trying to get you to do it. I
knew you weren't going to fall for it,
but I was prepared.
>> Don't we have things to get to?
>> You want some of those buttons on the
table?
>> Oh, I think that would be so good.
>> That's a different program. In the bond
market, 2-year, 10 year, 30-year bond
shaping up as follows. We look like
this. two-year yields at 35429 on 10
4.09% 09% with your single names this
morning. Good morning movers. Here's
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Let's begin with
AMD because to a certain extent this is
a halo effect right from the Open AI
valuation to have a trillion dollars
now. But also it's a second day of gains
for AMD on reports from Seaphore that
it's in talks with Intel for it to
supply Intel its manufacturing needs.
Now AMD had been reliant on TSMC for
most of its manufacturing needs. So that
would take out some potential
geopolitical thorniness out of that
equation as well. Now talks are still in
the early stages. Intel in a big run up
yesterday. As you can see, Intel is
lower pre-market. Moving on to another
AI related name and that's Nebus. Look,
another 5.7% premarket. Now Nebas is
like Core Weaver Lambda. It's this new
type of company that essentially rents
out AI cloud ability if you like cloud
vendors. Microsoft steel worth more than
$19.4 billion. Now, we knew of this deal
from Microsoft back in early September.
The stock spiked then, but now we have
more specifics. As part of it, Microsoft
is freeing up its own capacity and it's
benefiting the likes of Nebas. And then
let's finish off with a car maker.
They're going to be in the news today,
but Stalantis this time up 7%
considering a potential sale of free to
move that part of the business. We know
that the CEO Antonio Flossa is looking
to turn around Stalantis and present a
new plan to investors in the first
quarter of next year. We also know he's
trying to exit unprofitable businesses.
He's brought in McKenzie to look at
strategic advice from Maserati and Alfa
Romeo, for example. But we also know the
company has explicitly said that
Maserati is not for sale.
>> Vonnie, appreciate the update. Vonnie
Quinn there. Thank you very much. More
from Vonnie later this hour on a radar
this morning. Open AAI completing a deal
allowing employees to sell shares at a
$500 billion valuation, making it the
world's largest startup. The deal coming
as OpenAI negotiates with Microsoft to
convert into a for-profit company. And
check this story out. President Donald
Trump saying he'll press Chinese leader
Xi Jinping to restart purchases of
soybeans when they meet at the end of
the month. Beijing hasn't bought any
soybean cargo from the current harvest,
instead relying on Argentina and Brazil.
>> This is becoming a huge problem for this
administration. But remember, Trump won.
We did see in the end about $28 billion
in terms of a bailout to the farmers. So
we could see that again. Trump's talking
about all the tariff revenue coming in.
We might need to give that to the
farmers. But this is becoming incredibly
uncomfortable for the administration
politically given the fact the Treasury
Secretary is talking about extending
some sort of financial lifeline for
Argentina. And guess what Argentina is
doing? They're sending their soybeans
and taking advantage of this moment to
China. And the political question is
going to be for this administration, if
you are going to help Argentina, should
they not be alongside you putting up the
walls when it comes to China?
>> This is exactly where I was going to go.
The idea that soybeans are becoming
ultimately a an arbiter of who our
allies are and who they aren't. And this
does create a quagmire for Argentina.
And right now, you're seeing a real test
of the pledge that we saw from the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson saying
that we're gonna support this economy.
We're gonna support the currency. And
traders are saying, "Oh yeah, how about
those soybeans?" And guess what? They're
challenging them. And that's going to be
a real question. Does the US actually
step in to make good on some of those
promises?
>> Did you see that photo in the last week?
>> Yes.
>> The agriculture secretary,
>> Rollins texting the Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant basically complaining.
This is a big problem I'm having in the
Midwest. We need to talk about it. And
guess what? MLE is going to be coming
back to United States according to
Argentinian reports. And I am this is
going to become incredibly political for
this administration. agenda. Something
the White House will no doubt address in
the coming month. That's for sure. The
White House also needing to address
this. The budget director, Russell
Vaugh, planning to swiftly dismiss
federal workers as the government
shutdown continues. V telling House
lawmakers that some federal agencies
will terminate workers within one to two
days.
>> So, they're trying to make this very
painful for the Democrats potentially
carrot and stick approach to come to the
table or they're trying to use this
crisis to actually shrink the federal
government which we saw them do with
Doge. The issue this administration is
going to have is this is going to end up
going to the courts and maybe these
people are going to end up back in their
jobs.
>> Let's stay on the jobs front. Sticking
with the federal job cuts, you should of
the conference board writing the
following. Impact on official
unemployment rate from a shutdown if not
furls but permanent layoffs could be
anywhere between 0.1 to.5 percentage
points not including the spillover
impact on the private sector. Yolena
joins us now for more. Yolena, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> We've heard this phrase so many times,
low hire, low fire. When does the low
fire start to change?
>> Well, the low hiring doesn't need to uh
result in uh the layoffs just you know
mechanically doesn't happen but it
raises the risk of uh the layoffs and uh
the federal job cuts could actually
exacerbate that trend. So I think uh in
you know what we have this shutdown
dynamics right now and it's very
difficult to look at the data uh without
having the data but uh what our labor
differential index says that uh the
risks are rising and I think uh we are
entering a very difficult time. So how
does this cohhere with what we're seeing
in the rest of the market where we are
still seeing consumer spend we are still
seeing activity rebound we are still
seeing some hiring on the margins as
companies gain confidence for the for
the path ahead
>> I think uh you're right the hard data
seems to contradict uh the soft data
which is uh the survey data including uh
the conference board survey I think it's
a timing issue the big test for the
consumer will be at the end of the year
during the holiday shopping season we do
see prices rising and uh consumers
actually take a note of that and they
are telling us that uh they are very
much concerned about it.
>> How difficult is it to aggregate data
right now when each region in the United
States is acting kind of uh as though
it's dancing to its own music.
>> True. And especially like if you look at
uh you know the DC region uh for that
matter or you know the other other parts
of the country you were just talking
about agriculture. So uh I think you
still uh can look uh at overall numbers
and the overall numbers are telling us
that things are weakening the risks are
rising and uh the Fed will probably take
a note of that. I think uh if you look
at our again our data at the conference
board you will see that ninth
consecutive decline in the labor
differential index. It's an established
trend. So that tells you something that
tells you that uh the risks are rising.
But isn't it difficult to really
understand what is impacting the labor
market at this moment when basically
entry- levelvel jobs we don't understand
is it actually there's no need or the
need has been outsourced to artificial
intelligence.
>> So that's a separate question uh of
course and it's a big concern for uh
young adults for uh the housing market
because that affects the housing market
uh when young people don't uh have jobs.
But I think you know again if you look
at our data the we see a broadbased uh
con concern consumer confidence has been
you know trending down for all kinds of
income levels and groups. So you do see
a broad-based decline in those measures.
You also mentioned regions. Is it going
to get worse for the DC area if we have
a very prolonged government shutdown?
Virginia, Maryland. This is the place
where a lot of federal workers live and
uh not just the federal workers,
everybody else who depend on them. Think
about a food truck. You go for a lunch
like or you you will forgo that service.
You will not be able to recuperate,
right? You can buy uh goods when the
shutdown ends, but services will could
go uh away forever. Like that that is
something that you cannot recapture.
Have the hawks on the Fed got a credible
argument and what is it?
>> Well, inflation will rise according to
our forecast. It's taking time. You guys
talk about this on the program all the
time. It's a process and I do agree with
that. We do see inflation rising u above
3% uh by the year end uh in terms of PCE
inflation and that will uh get into the
consumer's minds and uh that's why we
expect
>> well the defense mind Will they be
uncomfortable cutting interest rates
when we get back to a threehandle? And I
know we're super close right now, but
when you're above that number, does the
story change? Does it get harder?
>> It it will feel uncomfortable for them.
There will be a lot of uh disagreement
on the Fed, but look at why they cut
rates at the September meeting. They cut
it because of the risks, not because of
the data. You know, they cut it despite
the data quite frankly, right? So look
at the uh materials that accompany the
summary of economic projections where
they talk about the risks. They have a
special metric there and you see the
rise in employment uh in employment
mandate risks essentially and that's why
they cut and the data that we we do have
is actually telling us that those risks
continue to rise.
>> I feel like we've been spending the past
six months saying we're in a dark room.
we don't know what's going on and we're
still kind of in the same place and I
feel as though we're not really moving
forward on the macro front in terms of
having better visibility which is the
reason why people are going all in on AI
and some of the trends they can identify
and study. Has there ever been a time
where it was more difficult for you
looking at all of this data to project
out where you expect us to be in 2026
where there is actually a fairly narrow
range of of possibilities that seems
likely? Well, we do run some
macroeconomic models and those big, you
know, models are telling us the impact
say from tariffs will be actually really
really big but we don't know right we
don't know we don't see that in the data
so that is very difficult uh trends have
changed but it doesn't mean that the
economic laws will be broken altogether
so I do still believe that that there
are some relationships in in economic
data that will hold so it's just a
matter of time. I think
>> jobs are not plentiful. They are hard to
get. We see that in your data in the
labor differential and we appreciate
your time. Thanks for being here.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you very much, Elena Shich over
there of the conference board. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you.
>> At least two people were killed in a
vehicle and knife attack at a synagogue
in Manchester during Young Services. UK
Prime Minister Kirsty cut short a visit
in Denmark to chair an emergency
meeting, writing this. Additional police
assets are being deployed to synagogues
across the country. We will do
everything we can to keep our Jewish
community safe.
Cityroup is now the main home for
President Trump's money. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg the relationship
started after CEO Jane Frasier called
and congratulated the president on his
second term win. Banks were previously
unwilling to take on Trump's wealth
after failing to repay loans tied to his
troubled business dealings.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk urging his 227
million exf followers to cancel Netflix
subscriptions for quote the health of
your kids. Musk making the comments to
criticize a Netflix show featuring a
teen protagonist who is trans. The
animated series ran from 2022 to 2023
and has since been cancelled. That is
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Avani, thank you. Those earnings come
from Netflix on October 21. So, we'll
see if that shows up in subscriptions.
Up next on the program, more of a boom
than a bubble.
>> We think that over over the next year,
next 2-year period, that's where you're
really going to start to see some of
those efficiency gains, some of those
benefits from AI adoption. I would call
it more of a boom than a bubble.
>> That conversation up next. Mike Pal of
Black Rockck joins us in just a moment.
Live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Stocks are positive by 0.2% 2% on the
S&P 500. Starting October and Q4 at
all-time highs on the S&P. 4-day winning
streak could become day five on the
NASDAQ 100. We're positive also by 0.5%
in the bond market. 2-year 10ear and
30-year 2-year yields plunging yesterday
following that week of expected ADP
report. ADP of course taking on
additional importance this week because
we won't get claims later this morning,
43 minutes from now. And we probably
won't get payrolls tomorrow morning at
8:30 Eastern time following the
government shutdown. Wanted to finish on
the week ahead. No payrolls, no jobless
claims. The ISM is kind of it right now
going into the weekend. ISM services.
>> Yeah. And just think about how much the
market could move on the heels of it
because it is the only game in town. If
you talk about that 2-year yield move,
it was the biggest move in the 2-year
yield going back the August payrolls
report when we saw a complete reset of
what Fed policy would be going forward.
And that's for a data point that has
been highly contested in the past and in
yesterday's revision. So take it for
what you will.
>> So there's a feeling we get to the end
of October, we cut interest rates again,
and then maybe the decision after that
is harder. December time when you have
to put out new forecast, maybe
inflation's closer, or maybe it has a
threehandle. And does that make that
decision to cut interest rates that
little bit more uncomfortable?
>> The answer from markets, nope, not at
all. Because what you can see from Fed
funds futures is essentially almost a
100% chance of a Fed rate cut at the
meeting later this month and then again
in December. So right now it doesn't
seem like that tough of a call at least
in the market's eyes which seems to be
influence influencing a lot of different
trades right now.
>> As the price inflation a place to be
apparently for both equities and gold
and credit as well seeing it across the
board and Savas this morning more of a
boom than a bubble.
>> I really don't think that we're we're
currently in a bubble state. I would
call it more of a boom than a bubble.
Valuations are very rich. There's no two
ways about that. It's it's a tough time
to justify adding risk, but we do think
the demand for compute is there. We
think that over over the next year, next
2-year period, that's where you're
really going to start to see some of
those efficiency gains, some of those
benefits from AI adoption.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. AI
optimism pushing global equities to
fresh highs. It's Mike Pal of Black
Rockck writing, "We think US equities
will regain global leadership as the AI
theme keeps providing near-term earning
support and could drive productivity in
the long term." Mike joins us now for
more. Mike, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Let's get into that quote and some of
the things we've been talking about so
far this morning. Why do you believe
this is such a risk friendly moment for
financial markets?
>> So, couple of things. One, I thought
Krishna just a moment ago really
captured the uh macroeconomic and Fed
dynamic well. um a strong growth
environment, at least a resilient growth
environment with labor market weakness
giving the Fed room to cut. That
combination of pretty strong growth in a
Fed cutting, that's a positive backdrop
for risk assets, particularly when
combined with a theme like AI that has
such potential to be transformative uh
and we think is increasingly an
important anchor for global portfolios.
>> Let's build on that. How difficult is it
to get used to the idea that we can have
a step down in payrolls growth but a
step up in earnings? That's something
typically I think people would struggle
with, but that seems to be what's
happening right now.
>> Yeah, agree. I mean, I think one way of
squaring the circle, you know, agreeing
that um you know, at the at the top
line, you know, we're seeing exactly
that we're seeing capex growth, we're
seeing uh consumer strength in
aggregate. Um at the same time, that K
shape is real. And again, I thought one
of the things that was well uh discussed
earlier was this Kshape isn't just about
consumers, it's also about the business
sector. Uh and I think one of the things
we saw in the updated uh GDP numbers uh
you know a few days back was you as we
were going through Q2 earnings we were
saying you know large corporates large
public corporates seem to be quite
resilient but when you look at unlisted
companies when you look at smaller caps
there that is where the the the struggle
appears to be happening in particular
with respect to tariffs and input costs
and the like. So I think one of the
things that again kind of highlights why
the AI theme is so important is not just
that it's transformative on its own and
I think there's some building evidence
there but also that other parts of the
economy are a little softer and we see
that in the data too.
>> What are the limits to bonds and stocks
rallying together?
Uh so I'd say a couple things there and
I think this goes to you know part of
how some of the investors at BlackRock
are thinking about it. You know there's
not just the impulse that we're seeing
from the macroeconomy from technology
but also some of the pricing dynamics as
well. uh you know I think that you know
you look at uh some of our our macro
investors they're saying yeah this is a
constructive backdrop for risk but
there's been a pretty big runup too we
might want to pull some chips off the
table uh even while maintaining
constructiveness over that 69 12 month
horizon today um and on the on the fixed
income side you know I think we've seen
the US rally uh versus other global bond
markets I think there too I think kind
of looking out over the next few months
a bit of an expectation that we could
see something of a reversal at least on
a relative basis. See US bonds
underperform a bit as we see European
bonds in particular poised to
outperform.
>> Well, I guess that to build on that
there's this question of the idea that
bonds and stocks are rallying but the
dollar isn't participating it and it
raises this sort of conundrum. is that
the release valve that this is an
economy being run too hot where there
are questions around the independence of
the long end of the yield curve. And
essentially, if you're going to bet on
bonds and stocks rallying together and
you bet on a weaker dollar, this doesn't
have to do with something that is
sustainable. It has to do with a policy
uh that is currently concentrated on
running things incredibly hot. I mean,
at what point is that the correct way to
look at things?
>> Yeah. So I think that we see that
divergence between equities and the
dollar as one of the key dynamics of
2025 and a way of squaring the circle is
to say as we've been talking about here
the equity story is really about large
caps is really about the AI
transformation that is what is driving
that story kind of above and beyond any
macroeconomic dynamics in the United
States. I think the dollar, you know,
that is a more traditional macro story.
You know, concerns around the fiscal
outlook, uh concerns around uh inflation
that may be stickier out over next year
than um is is currently anticipated. Uh
concerns around global allocators
wanting to increase the degree to which
they're hedging against the dollar.
Those are dynamics that I think are, you
know, importantly driving this this
different response in equities versus
the dollar. But I think you're right,
the dollar is where you see the more
traditional macro dynamics playing out
than in equities, which is really, you
know, about this this much different
impulse around technology.
>> It feels idiosyncratic with equities to
AI and then everything else is driven
potentially by a little bit of
uncertainty in Washington like the
dollar. If you're looking for a hedge,
isn't it just gold or is there other
opportunities out there?
>> Well, you know, I think this is
something we've talked about before. I
mean, it is clear that gold has run up.
It is clear I think to us that that
reflects investor demand for alternative
sources of diversification in a world
where the traditional sources don't look
as reliable like longdated government
bonds. I mean I think this is where you
know we think that you know things like
market neutral strategies, things like
uncorrelated uh strategies that can
bring alpha into the portfolio are able
to meet that same demand for alternative
sources of diversification but in a way
that we think uh is more kind of
underpinned by uh a reliable source of
alpha looking ahead. One thing you've
talked about is regaining leadership,
which suggests it was lost. And this
year, what we've seen is European banks
absolutely rip. So when you say
something like we'll regain leadership,
what does that mean for the European
stock trade that's had its moment in the
sun?
>> I mean, I think if you look at I mean,
it's that's correct about European
banks. If you take a step back and look
at the broad indices, Europe and the
United States, what you basically saw
was a moment of European outperformance
in the first quarter of the year. And
then really from the NADR and US equity
markets on or about April 7th, you know,
the US has regained leadership and has
really been the place where we've seen
our performance um you know since early
spring. Now the one thing I would say
and I think this goes back to the dollar
point. Yes, the S&P is up 13% on the
year, is up over 35% uh since April 7th,
but the experience of being an investor
in US equities for a European investor,
for a global investor, given that dollar
move has been a more uncomfortable one
if you're unhedged. And I think this is
why one of the things we're hearing from
global clients is boy, you know, the
past couple of years I've been willing
to take that currency exposure on an
unhedged basis that I've been
comprehensively bought into the US
exceptionalism trade. Now I want what US
equities can offer in terms of
technology, in terms of AI, but I'm a
bit more cautious on the currency and I
want to move back to something like my
traditional degree of hedging uh to
balance those risks a bit better.
>> That's bit of change. Mike, it's good to
see you to get an update. Thank you,
sir. my path there of Black Rockck.
Amazing to hear those words, isn't it?
That we regained leadership 5 days after
April 2nd. It's kind of crazy, right? 5
days after April 2nd, US equity market
standard regain leadership.
>> This goes back to the idea of uh what
Veto was talking about earlier uh from
RBC. Do you just put on noise cancelling
headphones and ignore the noise? Well,
yeah, because ultimately that's worked
every single time. And this is a primary
example.
>> It's paid off over the last 6 months,
that's for sure. Up next, David Stubs of
Alphacore, Benalo of Bed, Nila
Richardson of ADP, Binky Charter of
Deutsche Bank from New York City. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance is
up next.
[Music]
>> This isn't a thing where it's going to
be a long-term shutdown. Trump is
playing a different game by a different
set of rules than I think the Democrats
on Capitol Hill.
>> The market doesn't seem to really be
paying attention to what's happening
from, you know, the government shutdown
perspective.
>> The data is the data whether it comes
out or not.
>> This means we're flying blind in a
highly foggy environment and this is
very risky.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anmarie Hordern.
>> Stay in bed. No jobless claims, no
payrolls. Live from New York City this
morning. What will we do? Good morning.
Good morning to you all. The third hour
of Bloomberg Savannah and starts right
now and your scores look like this. What
will we do? Keep buying stocks. Up by
210 of 1% on the S&P following four days
of gains. We add some weight to the
rally. Alltime highs for October and the
start of Q4. In the bond market, a
2-year closer now to 350 355. We're up a
basis point today, but down a handful
yesterday following a downside surprise
on ADP and a not great ISM
manufacturing. As for the rest of this
week, it's going to be about ISM
services. There is a big question mark
around the payrolls report tomorrow and
I believe we have confirmation we will
not get jobless claims in 29 minutes
time.
>> Yeah, and it's really unclear exactly
how long it's going to take once the
government does reopen before we get
some of these data. So, if you take that
into consideration, you understand why
ADP yesterday, usually a peripheral data
point, had such an outsized move where
the two-year yield went down the most
going back to when we got that non-farm
payrolls report that was disappointing
in August. Right now, though, and I
think this is the key point, and it's
the key point for why people keep buying
stocks. There is a rate cut completely
priced into the market later this month,
and there is another one almost
completely priced in at the end of this
year. So right now it seems like the
Fed's getting a huge green light by the
markets to keep on cutting
>> exuberance on Wall Street, misery and
chaos down in Washington DC. The
president saying this just moments ago.
I can't believe the radical left
Democrats gave me this unprecedented
opportunity. They are not stupid people.
So maybe this is their way of wanting to
quietly and quickly make America great
again.
>> So he's talking about when it comes to
the layoffs and this potential to make
them permanent. The president even
questions in this truth social that he's
working on whether or not these are
going to be temporary or permanent when
he meets with Ross vault the OM director
today. This makes me think that that
threat was it just a threat to get
Democrats to the table or actually is
this the Trump administration using this
moment to shrink the federal workforce
which is something that they have been
wanting to do.
>> The Federal Reserve believes this labor
market is fragile. Those kind of
developments aren't going to dismiss
those fears. No, especially in the
Washington DC region if there are more
layoffs and then potentially what that
means for some of the state and local
governments, especially if there are
funding uh there is funding that is uh
brought back. Earlier this morning, we
were talking about poly market and what
the market is is pricing in in terms of
how long this shutdown is going to go
on. Right now, there is a 35% chance
priced in that it will extend longer
than October 15th. At that point, there
starts to be some economic blowback and
then we're going to have to have some
really serious conversations. economic
blowback, individuals don't get paid.
Most importantly, the men and women in
our armed services, the military, that
pay date is supposed to be October 15th.
And then potentially, this is when you
get a lot of push back from constituents
calling up their lawmakers since saying
reopen the government. This has gone too
much, especially the grumpy travelers.
When you have issues at the FAA,
>> they're going to be getting grumpier,
that's for sure. If you're just joining
the program, welcome. Equities up again
this morning by 210 of 1%. A marginal
lift to this stock market going into the
opening bell about 87 minutes away.
Coming up on the program, David Stubs of
Alphacore as stocks trade near all-time
highs. Ben Callow of Bed with Tesla set
to report 3Q delivery numbers and Nila
Richardson of ADP following weaker than
expected jobs data. We begin this hour
with stocks kicking off October at
record highs. David Stubs of Alpha Core
writing, I'm watching out for the peak
of the AI boom. If AI hype ends, then
volatility will increase before an
eventual peak. David joins us now for
more. David, good morning. Good to see
you, buddy.
>> Good to see you.
>> Let's get into it. AI any sign of that
boom ending anytime soon?
>> Not really. No, I mean I think you have
to look for the signs ahead of time
because we know how important it is,
right? We know how important uh you know
the AI theme since the launch of chat
GPT has been to earnings to valuations
to capex is is now trying is now driving
of course the real estate sector data
centers energy etc. um when you look and
you compare it to other you know booms
and Azimar at at Stanford has done
tremendous work on this uh things look
pretty good you know yes it's driving
like 1 2% of GDP that's not outsized if
you look at the growth in revenue and
especially the funding sources up until
this point right it's been funding out
of cash flows not too much debt but
around the edges you can start to see
that change a little bit right the
disappointment around chat GPT5 are we
are we actually going to get this
incredible technology or is it going to
disappoint and then the Oracle
announcement very very interesting right
stock you jumped and then that came that
announcement of they're going to they're
going to do a huge amount of debt uh you
know to to to you to fund it. So if you
start to see the sources of funding
shift from cash to debt if you start to
see disappointment in delivery and a
lack of revenue growth that's when I
think the the key names are going to get
volatile that could be the sign of a
peak. I have no idea if that's going to
happen tomorrow or if that's going to
happen a couple of years. I think it's
probably a couple of years away to be
honest but we've got we've got to look
at it for risk management purposes. But
in the meantime, the boom continues and
at the moment it's not driving a
significant lift in employment. Is that
deemphasizing traditional indicators for
markets?
>> I I think the the previous guests in the
last hour have done a great job of
discussing this very unusual uh you
moment we're at in macro and it was hard
enough before the data start was
canceled, right? So you you've obviously
got the capex you really being quite
strong and obviously job growth uh
slowing. I think one thing to to point
out out about the labor market, earned
income's actually been pretty strong
this year, right? which is jobs times
hours times you know earnings that's
been going along at about 5% annualized
in the first half of this year pretty
good you know this quarter I do think
that you know capex can only take us so
far uh consumers have the ability to
smooth through a quarter or two of of of
lackluster job growth right they've got
plenty of embedded wealth gains credit
markets you know are wide open but
eventually could we could we grow with
zero jobs forever probably not so I
think that is that remains a key macro
risk and ultimately it'll be a macro
risk which under which undermines the
the market's faith in the earnings
trajectory at some point.
>> A lot of macro models try to follow
history, right? And they try to
understand how this relates to recent
history and beyond. And one of the
problems with this moment is it feels
transformative and as though maybe it's
a correlary to is it the dot bubble? Is
it 1971? Is it 1944 when there were some
uh really transformative uh mechanisms
to the whole trade system? What's your
correlary right now? It's it's tough to
find a specific historical color but you
can definitely look back at that launch
of chat GPT and say it was almost a
structural break in the market's
understanding of the future of the
economy and and and productivity.
Certainly um the AI's ability to in
theory not just uh improve the
productivity of of manufactured goods
etc but also to reach deep into the
white collar space I think is different
this time. And when we look at the labor
market, there's been lots of lots of
very detailed studies point pointing out
that you can already see it in the in
the lack of hiring of junior positions,
especially in large companies, right?
They're thinking, well, I don't have AI
perfect now, but I know it's coming. Why
do I need, you know, another generation,
you know, of analysts? So, there's been
by some measures, you're seeing a
decline of 10 to 15% in hiring of
juniors and actually a little bit of an
increase in mid tier staff who've had
that experience. Companies really value
that. So I think we are seeing I think
the leading edge of AI in in large
companies hiring and in their margins
and you're seeing it spread out way way
out of tech. Great way to play this of
course is the financials. Financials
have two things that makes AI really
work. Firstly, they have a bunch of
basic costs that they can they can
obviously auto automate away back office
regular processes and they have masses
amount of proprietary confidential data
which they can use to offer better
services to their clients and I think
that's why you see this idea that you
know that financials could be trading
little bit more like technology stocks.
Jamie Diamond's always said and we're
actually running a tech technology
company. I think AI is actually going to
make that real when it comes to their
margins and their earnings.
>> Everyone wants to be a technology
company right now. Do you remember that?
>> That was when they were struggling to
hire talent. It was like, "We're a tech
firm, too."
>> Exactly. I mean, well, you know, they're
trying to make the pitch again. I'm just
wondering, we've always said the stock
market's not the economy. Has it ever
been more so than right now? And does
that mean that the correlation between
bonds and stocks just completely breaks
down? Just they're dancing to their own
music. I think when you have this
transform transformative trend that's
really playing out in the largest
companies in the world that are based in
America, you have then of course the the
weakness of the dollar in the first half
boosting the earnings of the
international larger companies there.
That's obviously, you know, reinforcing
that point about it not being, you know,
the you the the stock markets not being
the economy, right? So, I I think that,
you know, you you you do have at some
point a linkage between between the two,
but right now we have the high-end
consumer driving what consumer spending
there is. The the percentage of spending
from that top cohort keep just grows and
grows. The wealth of that co cohort just
grows and grows. And unless you get some
type of clear interruption from a major
macro decline, I don't see what would
interrupt that. When you think of clear
interruptions, the president is
truththing this morning that he's unsure
yet whether or not he's going to make
these what should be furls in the past,
usually permanent layoffs. What kind of
impact could that have?
>> Well, it's certainly unfortunate timing
given how weak the the private sector
hiring has been for sure. Again, I don't
know you you'll know better than me like
how much of this is bluster, how much of
this is a political, you know, your game
there. I think that widespread layoffs
will be popular in some parts of the
country and very popular in you know, in
others. Uh I I do think that this is
part of you know the political posturing
here trying to blame you both sides.
We've been through these before. Um what
worries me is that is that both sides
are quite dug in here. There's been very
clear asks from from one side which are
very hard to deliver for the other. If
I'm if I'm guessing I do think we're
going to be at this for for a few weeks
here
>> longer than October 15th what we have on
poly market. Maybe you should make a
bet. Well, yeah. I'm not going to give
out betting advice on on on on TV, but I
think it's going to be weeks, not days
is my is my sense, but who knows?
>> That's wise, David. Let's finish on
managing risk and more specifically
concentration risk. I think people might
be looking at other asset classes, other
sectors within stock markets and trying
to diversify, but ending up in the same
trade,
>> AI, you mentioned financials. There are
some financials that ultimately giving
people exposure to the same thing. I can
think of some private asset managers
getting exposure to private markets but
in the same thing.
>> Are you worried about concentration risk
and how are you and the team managing
that?
>> We are looking through all of our
investments and alpha core we specialize
in putting private investments and
alternatives at the center of
portfolios. If you work with your GPS to
understand the themes that are driving
you know those things how they're
invested match those up as best you can
with the public markets you try to get
at this kind of thematic concentration
risk. And right now it's it's it's very
hard to to avoid, right? Good luck
trying to find a high conviction play
that's not AI related. I can think of a
of a couple, but they are more nichy. We
talked about European banks in the
previous uh you your segment, the the
broad releveraging of the European
economy, the defense play outside of of
the US, the rebound in China tech, but
again, it's China Tech AI. So, so I
think you do you do have to you
absolutely, you know, that's part of
what good money management is. Try to
find the the risk, try to hedge them a
little bit. It's very hard to to move
away from it right now. We're still
again we are believers in AI in the in
the medium term. We are still you
staying long that you long you large cap
growth space but we are trying to find
with our managers other you know key
themes to drive the next 5 to 10 years
they're out there but separating them
from the AI that's quite hard to do.
>> Pursuing their concentration has been
the objective at least for the moment
because it's working and it's been
working so well.
>> It's been the reason for us
exceptionalism in the equity markets.
I'm just trying to research the biggest
busts in the.com era to understand what
the corlaries could be there because
ultimately you rais a really good point.
Everything is concentrated around the
same theme or a lot of the winners are.
So, how do you decipher which are
barking up the wrong tree?
>> David, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Pleasure.
>> Thank you, sir. David Stubs there of
Alphaore. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Apple is pausing a
planned overhaul of its vision pro
headset to focus on developing smart
glasses. It's working on at least two
types, including one that will pair with
an iPhone and another that could rival
Meta's Ray-B band display. Apple's
glasses will rely heavily on voice
interaction and artificial intelligence.
The race to succeed Bob Iger at Disney
is heating up. A growing consensus among
company insiders suggests Josh Dearo
will be the next CEO. Demarro, who
currently leads the parks division, is
reportedly one of four internal
candidates the board is focused on. The
others include entertainment co-heads
Dana Walden and Alan Bergman, as well as
ESPN chief Jimmy Petaro. Bob Iger's
contract ends in December of 2026.
The Los Angeles Dodgers are the first
team to advance to the MLB wildcard
round, sweeping the Cincinnati Reds.
Elsewhere, the New York Yankees have
forced a decisive game three against the
Boston Red Sox after winning last night
4 to3. The Padres's and Guardians also
fended off elimination. That sets up
just the second time in baseball history
there'll be three winner take all
playoff games in one day. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. Seem
happy with you.
>> I am happy. I'm so excited. Jazz Chisum
had an amazing game after being stare at
you right now. I mean that really
>> when the camera picked you up that was
so much kinder because the one you're
quick that expression changed the one
you were given by Marie before
>> she's just wallowing in her mess
>> if looks could kill up next. Let's get
you some morning calls. Plus Ben Calla
bed with Tesla set to report 3Q delivery
numbers. That's cool coming up in just a
moment live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
If we just go back to as recently as the
tech bubble, things were practically
primitive versus where we are today.
This isn't the primitive stage of people
saying someday we will have a million
eyeballs on our on our website. This is
companies that know you need billions of
eyeballs and and you need to be well
capitalized. It's real money. That's why
it's so hard to fight and that's why
this market's performed so well despite
what we've seen in the labor market.
John Sto there of Oppenheimer. This is
what we see in the labor market this
morning.
Not going to see it. 15 minutes away. No
jobless claims. You thought it was an
accident, didn't you?
>> Cricket. Yeah, I did.
>> Okay. I thought TV magic.
>> Okay. I know. That was amazing.
>> The theater performance.
>> I didn't even say anything.
>> Okay. All right. You know,
>> call me out for something I didn't even
say.
>> Silence didn't work. Okay. Equities are
up by a third of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.5. Let's get you some
morning calls. First up, Key Bank
upgrading Nike to overweight,
highlighting comfort in the company's
turnaround story. Your second call from
Canacor downgrading lithium America's to
sell saying it current valuation does
not accurately reflect his deal with the
US energy department and finally William
Ble downgrading RH to market perform
warning US furniture tariffs may create
challenges next year that stock is down
1% they have had a tough go of it RH and
that's going to make it harder
>> yeah they said look you cannot raise
prices people won't buy it at the same
time the prices are being raised and I
just want to say usually are so smooth
which is the reason why I was a a little
bit styied in my
>> I said crickets. I understood what he
was putting down.
>> I know, but
>> I was expecting you to hit one of your
noise machine buttons,
>> you know. Okay. All right. We'll move
on. Thanks for the smooth compliment.
>> I I failed you. I appreciate it.
>> I'll run with that. All right. Let's
turn to tech. Tesla releasing third
quarter deliveries this morning with
analysts predicting a slowing sales
decline. Ed Lllo's tracking the company.
He joins us now. Ed, what can we expect?
>> Yeah, I mean consensus is that Tesla
does just shy of 440,000 vehicles.
That's a 5% drop yearonear, but it's a
an improvement sequentially from the
balance of 2025. You said turning to
tech. Are we turning to tech? This is
just a moment in time where we're
talking about the delivery of vehicles.
And what I keep hearing from sources
over and over again is look at the work
that Inside Tesla has done on
advertising, paid advertising on
platforms like YouTube and Instagram in
the quarter and also all of the
marketing materials that went out about
the end of the federal tax credit. So
there's that typical scramble, but the
reason I bring up the advertising piece
is this is the delivery print before
that critical November 6th vote on Elon
Musk's comp package. He's been set the
target by the board of delivering 20
million vehicles, the breadandbut
business by the end of the term and the
full fulfillment of the tranches that
he's to receive. Um it's conditional,
right? It is a mandatory requirement.
Um, but uh, a lot of the investor base,
even those most loyal to Elon Musk on
the retail side, have been calling for
Tesla to do some advertising, some
marketing, something that Musk has
resisted for a long time. So, that's
what I'm hearing from people inside the
company. They're kind of feeling that
something changed in the quarter, but
with a firm eye that there's a lot of
pressure to get this vote through
November 6. And just this week, we heard
from New York State Pension, right, that
they will not be voting in favor of it.
It's a really critical moment. the data
informs more the long term than
potentially what's happening in here and
now but broadly the EV market in the US
as you know John um there is some crack
showing the stock is up by 1.9% this
morning Ed thank you looking forward to
Bloomberg technology Ed llo Karen Hyde
coming up a few hours from now Ben
Callow of bed recently upgrading Tesla
to outperform seeing a string of
catalysts ahead Ben joins us now for
more Ben welcome to the program sir as
you know you often talk about it there's
always tension with this stock near-term
fundamentals versus long-term dreams the
question I always ask about these
particular stocks, the likes of Tesla,
is what is driving it right now? What
makes it go up or down? Is it the
long-term story or the near-term
fundamentals?
>> Thank you for having me. Uh good
question. I I think right now it's uh
it's the long term. Um uh I do think
that uh deliveries uh are going to be
better than expected. I we've seen
analysts raise their numbers and we've
seen good data out of uh China, US ahead
of the tax credit um and in Europe. But
I do really think that uh you know with
you know open AI getting this uh you
know $500 billion valuation the real
focus here is on physical AI um I think
that you know the uh shareholder meeting
will be a catalyst. Um people want Elon
to be at the helm. I think Tesla stock
will wouldn't work without Elon there.
uh ambitious targets. Um but we've seen
over the last two pay packages um you
know back in the first one arguably I
was you know labeled one of the biggest
bulls out there perma bull uh when I saw
the targets I didn't think they could do
them. They did did it in two years. The
second package uh same thing they did in
5 years. Uh I think this one maybe not
as easy. Uh but when you put the numbers
together, you can get to, you know, a a
stock price of uh $1,500 or more. Uh and
I think that's where people are focused
uh less on the car business. The car
business is needed to support uh uh
growth because of the cash flow. Uh but
we've seen it rebound um after uh really
bad quarters uh over the last three
quarters.
>> Ben, how is Tesla maintaining the cash
flow from sales in China right now? How
is Tesla even beginning to compete
against the machine that is the EV
creation coming out of the world's
second biggest economy?
>> What we've seen so far is that u you
know they did uh this the new model Y
variant uh a long wheelbase uh so far
the you know reception has been very
good. uh Tesla uh competes very heavily
there and uh I don't think they had as
much brand damage in uh in China as uh
in US and definitely in Europe because
of of Elon and being you know the the
political uh spotlight. Uh but you know
the new Model Y at the beginning of the
year uh they shut down all their
factories to ramp up the new Model Y and
then the lowerric vehicle that should
come by uh the end of the year. Uh that
was a big task. Uh but what we're seeing
now is is uptake from uh as they get
that uh production back uh going strong.
>> What's interesting to me, Ben, is that
we're talking about this as though it's
any other country. And yet a lot of US
companies have talked about how they're
pulling out of China. They can't compete
there. They're getting blacklisted
there. They're not able to get the same
kind of upper hand as some of the
national champions. I would think that
Tesla would be first and foremost among
those companies that would be facing
some of those pressures. Why don't we
hear anything about that given how much
Tesla relies on their China sales?
>> Just bringing it back to Elon. Um for
right or wrong, you know, there's all
these headlines hitting that you know
his net worth is $500 billion and then
the pay package would make him the first
trillionaire. Um I remember Elon uh you
know uh unexpectedly went and had a
meeting with President Xi. uh he has
that type of power as uh as someone that
you know has a net worth of $500
billion. He can go meet with the heads
of uh state across the globe and uh I
think that's it's different than uh you
know the the OEMs like Ford and GM and
uh some of the Euro uh uh OEMs as well.
>> Well, he can meet with heads of state
across the world, but is he still
invited into the Oval Office? How much
of how damaging is that for the company?
Well, you know, it was it was very
damaging from a stock perspective when
you you get into a a spat uh to say the
least with uh the president of the
United States. Um I you know, I think
that u you know, we've seen uh them
trying to make up um uh I think that uh
you know, he is doing his best to do
that and um and uh and you know, that
has helped the stock uh as they've he's
tried to repair that relationship.
>> Hey Ben, appreciate your time. As
always, Ben Caleder of Bed the latest
with Tesla. They sat together recently,
didn't they? They did.
>> Had a little conversation, broke the
ice.
>> They had a conversation, broke the ice,
but you don't see Elon Musk once again
as this pervasive presence at the White
House. Not only did he get a spat with
the president of the United States, but
there are reports that the president of
United States Treasury Secretary
actually punched him. So, this is bad
blood at the moment.
>> Policy didn't break his way. Didn't
break the sector's way when it came to
the EV tax credits. I just got a
question moments ago about how much pull
forward there might have been ahead of
the expiry of those. I've heard to from
several people who have come on this
program and spoke to us in a commercial
break about buying EVs before that
ended.
>> Yeah. So, at a certain point they could
benefit from that. Maybe we get a sense
of that later today. I'm just struck by
this idea that the richer somebody is
and I'm thinking of Jensen Wang. I'm
thinking of Elon Musk. I'm thinking
about some of these magnates that are
leading some of these technological
drives, the more they can act
independently as their own little
diplomats uh and sort of go meet with
the heads of state themselves. That to
me is a gamecher and really reflects the
sort of dual uh paths of a lot of these
companies.
>> They are as big as their own countries,
right?
>> Bigger.
>> So why wouldn't they have their own
diplomatic wink
>> but that's essentially the reason why
the bigger you are perhaps the more you
have some degree of immunity from some
of the uh policy uncertainty.
>> Where are we now? Four and a half.
>> Yeah.
>> Trillion
>> trillion dollars t and we could have a
trillionaire Elon Musk. I mean who's
next?
>> Amazing. Futures positive by 0.3 up
next. Anita Richardson of ADP. We've got
to get into that ADP number of the last
24 hours, the lowest in a few years.
From New York City, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Equities a little firmer, up a quarter
of 1% on the S&P. The opening bell about
16 minutes away. This follows a 4-day
winning streak. It could become day
five. Typically, we'd say it's at the
mercy of the data, but we don't have
any. Mike McKe joins us now for more.
Good morning, Mike.
>> Oh, John. Uh, that's not exactly
correct. I wouldn't want to leave you
with nothing at this point. What's the
first thing you might do after hearing
that you've lost your job? You want to
check out what your health insurance
possibilities are? And the Labor
Department has a website that explains
how Cobra works. And they keep track of
how many people have accessed that
website each week. last week 245,000
which is a spike up from the previous
two weeks. So it may be uh a kind of a
little bit of a psychological substitute
here for the jobless claims numbers.
People are worried about whether they
can keep their health insurance if
they're laid off. This does not include
all the government workers who left the
payroll this week but uh because they're
they don't get COBRA, but it is
something interesting. What else do we
know about the labor market going into
tomorrow's no jobs report data? Well, we
know that the challenger numbers came
out this morning and they showed the
weakest September for hiring since 2011.
Jolts hiring uh in July was down 2%.
Layoffs were up 9%. Conference board job
confidence the lowest since 2021. ISM
manufacturing hiring has been below 50
since January, the break even period.
And of course, we had the ADP numbers
last uh yesterday that showed a very
disappointing negative 32,000 jobs, but
I know you're going to be talking about
that with Nila Richardson in just a
moment. So, I'll leave that one alone.
Uh the one thing I do want to point out
for everybody out there who has a
Bloomberg terminal, we have an
alternative page. It's uh WSL
A and it's a list of economic data that
is privately provided that will be
available on a regular basis. So if you
want to look at alternative data, look
at that WSL
go on your Bloomberg terminal.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Only you could
come up with this stuff. Appreciate it.
Thank you very much. Thank you. He's not
going to be alone, is he? A lot of
people are going to look for new ways to
track what's happening in this economy.
Never underestimate the ingenuity of
Wall Street to find something to trade
on. And that I think is what we keep
learning and what we see this morning
with talking about Cobra applications
and the amount of traffic on that
website
>> or something to bet on.
>> Yes, exactly.
>> Which is a different story. Nila
Richardson of ADP joins us now for more
following the lowest ADP we've seen, I
believe, since March 2023. Nila, good to
see you.
>> Great to see you as well.
>> What was behind it? How much weakness
are we actually seeing? First off, I
think it's important to underline the
prominent trend in the ADP data, which
is a slowdown in hiring momentum that's
been from January through this year. Um,
that has been consistently validated
every single month. What we did this
month though was a statistical
regularity. We do it every year. Um, we
announced it in February with the
January release, which is to do an
annual benchmarking. Normally this does
not make news. This month it did. But
what it does is it reattaches the ADP
numbers to the source of truth that we
have in the United States, which is this
benchmark that comes from state
unemployment insurance data. This this
kind of data that we see weekly with the
jobless claims numbers. And and the
importance of that is if you really want
the perfect data set, you would have the
comprehensiveness of the state UI data
covering 95% of US employees and the
granularity of ADP data. We don't have
that. So we make this tradeoff of ADP
estimating that state data uh that comes
out with a six-month lag. We reattached
to it every single year. So was it as
bad as it looked yesterday? I mean,
that's really what people want to know.
This all sounds very complicated and it
sounds like, you know, there are a lot
of things at play, but the granular
data, does it display the same kind of
negativity that the bond market took
notice of it yesterday? Yeah, it does.
This is our best estimate of what hiring
was in September, negative 32,000. That
is our best estimate. It is our most
robust estimate. It's rigorous. It's
tied to the QCW. So, no, you don't need
to dismiss the number. Now, if you look
at the the series, we don't fully
rebenchmark the year until February with
the January release, but that September
number is the number. So what it tells
you even if you look at the
pre-benchmarked series which I did of
course you see the same trend and this
is what I want to underscore to your
audience because the takeaway is
qualitative and the takeaway is firm
validated that hiring momentum has
slowed since the beginning of the year
to a point where it is a weak labor
market in terms of hiring. It is not a
weak labor market in terms of layoffs.
very important to hold these two ideas
together. The stock of the labor market
is strong. The flow into the labor
market is weak. The flow out of the
labor market is weak.
>> So, is the market breaking or is it just
an ongoing stagnation of the low fire,
low hire that still has not broken in
one way or another?
>> We have a stagnant labor market and all
of that consumer spending that fueled
Q2, a 3.8% 8% growth rate we just saw
was built on the backs of the labor
market because the labor market is
supporting the consumer. So in that way
it's strength but that strength is not
strong enough on in terms of consumer
spending to create new jobs. That's a
different level of economic productivity
that we still need to see in the economy
that's missing the dynamism that leads
to consistent job creation. We don't
have it in the September number. this
time tomorrow, we would be debating and
looking at the data when it comes to the
BLS report. We're not going to get it.
What do you make of the shutdown? How
much of an impact is this going to have
on the economy?
>> You know, it depends on how long um the
government stays shut. But what I what I
will say is that the shutdown doesn't
just affect federal workers. It does
affect federal workers, but not just if
you think about all those private
contract workers, the ones that operate
the cafeterias, the ones in the national
parks, the ones that drive uh government
officials here and there, they are also
without work as the government shuts
down. So, it's these reciprocal effects
that I'll be watching in the private
sector data to see if if this leads to
even more weakness in hiring because of
all those private contractors. In the
past, did you see it bleed into the
private sector?
>> Yeah, but it was always temporary. Um,
we know that the longest shutdown uh on
that we've seen recently was 35 days.
That's a long time uh to be without a
paycheck. I don't care who you are, it's
a long time to be without a paycheck.
And so that is going to have an effect
in the labor market. It's going to have
an effect in consumer spending. But if
we can get a reopening that's much
shorter than that, we won't see such a
strong push back in the in the labor
market when it comes to hiring. I also
will note that this just adds to the
malaise of uncertainty that we've seen
all year long. It's not just the data.
It's not just the conditions. It's the
fact that, you know, companies are going
to operate through fog. If you're a
private contractor, do you hire right
now? And how much do you hire? That's
the question before them as the
government is shut.
>> The entire morning we've been talking to
people who say that the US economy can
keep running uh at this very slow pace
and we can still see the incredible
dynamism that's reflected in equity
market pricing. Do you see the same
relationship or do you think that there
is a greater warning flag in the labor
market and the dynamic that you're
seeing there for the other side of the
equation? You know, I feel like we are
at this uh traffic light right now that
is out. You know what happens to traffic
when the light is out, right? You fall
back on this, you take your turn, I'll
take my turn. Sometimes we get that
confused and we go at the same time. And
once we're past the light, we're fine.
That's where we are in the economy. We
don't have the data we're used to
seeing. There's some uncertainty about
who goes next. We won't get the flow.
There's bottlenecks. That's what gums up
economic activity. But if you can get
past that into some clarity, we have all
the ingredients in this economy to push
forward with strong GDP growth as we saw
in the second quarter. So some of this
is just getting the lights literally
back on and the data still flowing so we
can keep that dynamism flowing.
>> That's the data. But when it comes to
hiring plans, if there is a greater
degree of mergers and acquisitions and
certainty at least from the economic
trajectory, maybe not in the tariffs, do
you expect the hiring to reacelerate? Do
you think this is going to break to the
upside rather than further to the
downside?
>> I think there's a potential but right
now it is not clear where that trigger
of dynamism comes from. It for employers
to hire. What do they need? They need
clarity. They need strong consumer
demand and they need the ability to
invest long term. So they have some of
those elements in place. I think we're
still missing the clarity and and that's
a really important component of whether
or not you can add to your headcount,
which is a long-term people investment.
Now, one thing I'm hearing employers say
is now if we can't hire our our
workforce, let's make sure the workers
we have are more engaged. And when I
talk to big companies especially, there
has been more attention on how to
upskill their workers, train their
workers, engage their workers, have more
connection to get the most out of the
people they have right now, even if they
can't add to the headcount in a
significant way.
>> Keep your people happy. That's what it's
all about. I'm pleased we're getting
back to that. That's good.
>> Yeah. That Did you hear keep your people
happy? I heard get more out of them and
milk them for all you can. You can say
keep them happy. Whichever way you do
it, happy people are more productive.
>> There you go. There. Yeah,
>> there you are. N Thank you. Appreciate
it. Nether richer than the of ADP.
Typically, we'd get jobless claims. We
didn't. 225 was the estimate. 218 was
the previous number. The 4-we average
has been around 237 238. Those numbers
are pretty low despite the fact we've
had this massive step down in payroll
growth.
>> This is the whole idea of stagnation.
You're not getting the firing, which
raises the question, we've been in this
place for a long time. Is it going to
break one way or another? Are we turning
into Europe?
>> Companies are investing a lot of money,
but the companies that are doing that
aren't the ones hiring. That's the
problem.
>> Well, this is the reason why it's so
difficult. And Amry, you were talking
earlier about how much this is just AI
replacement. There is an element of
productivity being increased by some of
this technology which can prevent
hiring, which makes me think in 3 four
years the people coming into the labor
market might have a really good chance
because they haven't hired as much and
those people might be more conversant in
AI. I might be selling a pitch for
progyny who might be entering the work.
>> Of course. Yeah, there's no bias here.
>> That's what I'm hoping for.
>> Talking about the Brao family.
>> So, what is it?
>> This is I mean, this is literally what
we're talking about because right now
it's making it very difficult for people
who are graduating, other people in the
family.
>> This is going to be a huge political
issue. If AI is truly taking the jobs of
young Americans coming out of college,
where else are they to go? If you're not
hiring entry level, how are they
supposed to get on the ladder? which is
why the H-1B visa issue of the past few
weeks is so critical. It's a clear
response to some of these issues and I
don't think that got enough air time in
the last two weeks. That's going to be a
major major factor in all of this. That
is a message to tech firms to say look
domestically first and hire American
talent before you start looking abroad.
>> Yeah,
>> absolutely. That was part of it. The
other political issue is going to we're
already seeing is individuals lining up
to get federal help to pay their
electricity bills. AI is creating so
many issues that the politicians are
just way far behind on.
>> It's turning out to be regressive up
front and this is going to be an issue I
think you know midterms.
>> You're right next year.
>> Said it repeatedly from Academy. This
isn't a multi-year story. This is a
month-on-month story now. Those energy
prices are real. That's going to be a
factor next year.
>> Yeah. And how are they going to handle
that? Which is the reason why I thought
the Reuter story earlier was
interesting. The idea that the
government's going to try to take a
stake in a number of different sectors.
how they're going to try to get ahead of
some of these issues for the midterms.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloombo brief. Let's
cross over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Open AAI's
valuation soarses to $500 billion. That
makes it the world's most valuable
startup. Sourc is telling us here at
Bloomberg current and former employees
sold more than $6 billion worth of
stock, pushing OpenAI past its previous
$300 billion valuation. This all as
negotiations are underway with Microsoft
to convert OpenAI into a for-profit
company.
Arab and Muslim leaders are pushing
Hamas to accept the 20point peace Gaza
plan announced by President Trump this
week. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg a full Israeli withdrawal is a
significant achievement despite the
timing not being explicit in the plan.
Qatar's foreign minister said Hamas is
preparing its response.
Two Delta Airlines regional jets
reportedly collided at low speed while
taxiing at New York's LaGuardia airport
on Wednesday night. According to an ABC
affiliate, no injuries have been
reported. It's the latest in a string of
incidents at LaGuardia in recent months
that have prompted federal safety
probes. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on our program, Binky Charter of
Deutsche Bank. He'll be joining us to
talk about the equity market. Plus,
Vonnie's back. She's got your morning
movers. Tesla rising and Rivian falling
with the latest delivery figures out
this morning.
[Music]
The market wasn't quite sure what to
make of those comments by pal I think
about a week ago but I think it made it
very clear that they are focused on
employment risk relative to inflation
risk and if making the right call in
their eyes on that macro risk management
is associated with markets going up
that's all right by then
>> that was Chris Nagua of Everorai he was
absolutely fantastic really laying out
why people are so comfortable taking
risk in this market and why so many of
you yes many of you are willing to chase
further their asset price inflation and
why not given the year we've had so far.
Equities at alltime highs added some
weight to the rally up a quarter of 1%
on the S&P with some morning movers
going into the opening bell 43 minutes
away. Here's Volley with more. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Well, we're going to start
with a whole industry overhaul. This
right here is a fascinating story. So
fair Isaac FICO we all know it as came
out and said that it was going to start
giving mortgage lenders the option to
calculate and distribute FICO scores
directly to consumers. Now what does
that do? Well, it disintermediates the
like of Equifax and all of those other
credit reporting companies. So, think
TransUnion and also Equifax, as I say,
and Experian. So, there were three of
them, right? They're all down pre-market
thanks to this decision by FICO.
Investors repricing a whole industry
today. Now, let's move to autos because
that's also another industry very much
in the bird's eye today. Rivian
disappointing investors even though it
beat by a couple of hundred vehicles
when it comes to deliveries. We know
that the EV credit was expiring at the
end of last month and there might have
been a little demand pulled forward. So
perhaps that's why the stock is down.
Perhaps investors were looking for a
little more. But it's a very niche
company. We're talking about 13,21
deliveries in the quarter. The full year
forecast. It narrowed that range, but
that also met estimates. The estimates
for 42,730 and there's a range in there.
We are awaiting Tesla delivery figures
as well. That's likely to please
investors. That's why the stock is up
pre-market. Sales numbers this morning
should show just under 440,000 vehicles
in the last 3 months. Now, that would be
down 5% year-over-year, but would be a
much better improvement over the first
half of the year where we saw sales down
13%. And of course, Elon Musk is back
and quote unquote refocused at the
company as well with lots of milestones
for him to meet to get that huge pay
package. So, he'll want those deliveries
to come in strong.
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Tesla up by 1.3% on credit
scores. Always surprised by the average
credit score in this country that it
runs in the 700s.
>> That's pretty good, you know.
>> Yeah, it's very difficult to get to that
level.
>> A decent credit score.
>> Maybe a lot of people just don't have
credit. You're correct. It seems like
it's an incredibly high one. But don't
you have one that
>> I'm not going to share those things? I
got a state bystate background note
>> just in front of me background. Do you
want state by state? I've got one for
you now.
>> What do you think is the highest? I've
got it in front of me. I think it's
Minnesota at 7:30.
>> That makes sense,
>> right? Why does that make sense?
>> I mean, I've lived out in that region
before and there just is a very strong
>> check their credit all the time.
>> Well, there's just a very strong kind of
>> pull your pants up by your bootstraps
and
>> okay,
>> you know, that kind of thing.
>> Mississippi 675. I think that's the
lowest. I'm just eyeballing this data
right now.
>> Let's not come up with
>> comes from Equifax. I'll send it over to
you. You can have a look. It's an
interesting read. All right. Sticking
with markets, Binky Chhater at Deutsche
Bank is one of the most bullish on the
street with a year-end target of 7K. He
writes in our reading however equity
positioning is only moderately
overweight and we see growth not rates
as the primary driver to focus on. Binky
joins us now for more. Binky good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get into this. A lot of people
would look at this market and say well
everyone must be very very long and
overweight. What do you read? What are
you looking at that tells you something
different?
>> So overall equity market positioning in
our reading is clearly overweight. So if
you think about it on a zcore basis,
normally we are in a range between
minus1 and plus one. Our read in round
numbers would be that the market's
position basically at plus a half or.5.
So clearly overweight but not extreme.
But the related point that I would make
is that that overweight is coming in our
reading entirely from the positioning of
systematic strategies. So if you think
back to April the n well there's April
the 2nd which is the lead in to April
the 9th and and and and you have had
basically on April the 2nd you know uh
uh what I would describe really as a
vault shock. So you have the VIX in the
50s, right?
>> And then you have the relent on policies
on April the 9th and V starts to
basically come down. Uh you get a strong
recovery and so the trend and V
basically coming down is pushing up uh
by rules uh the positioning of
systematic strategies. I would say the
much larger part of the investor base,
the discretionary investors as opposed
to systematic investors and
discretionary investors you want to
think about as basically
fundamentals-based investors. They've
their positioning is basically at
neutral by early July and in our reading
continues basically to hug neutral. So I
would argue that actually positioning
today despite the runup in the market is
a source of upside because if you look
at the positioning of discretionary
investors and what drives it
historically it's exactly what you would
think it is which is earnings growth.
And so if you look at the relationship
between discretionary investor
positioning historically and S&P 500
earnings growth it's a pretty compelling
relationship. There are of course
disconnects from time to time when other
things are in focus and if you look at
their neutral positioning today it's
positioned for growth in the very low
single digits 1 2 3% it moves around um
we and their positioning like I said you
know it's been this way since July
uh that's when we were getting second
quarter earnings which came in at uh 10%
year-on-year growth 9 and a half% Uh and
and and and if you think about what
we're going to start getting in a couple
of weeks, our take or or preview would
be that we're likely to get, you know,
actually uh somewhat of a pickup in
growth uh in earnings growth closer to
sort of 11% uh and and and so the
pressure is on, I would argue, for
discretionary investors to buy in
basically to this recovery where they
haven't they've really been focused on
uh the risks is what we would argue. So,
uh, this is a reason why you upgraded
your target for the S&P 4 end to 7,000.
That was earlier in September. I'm just
wondering how much you see that
continuing through 2026 to lead to some
of the real bull cases that we've heard
of 77,800
on the S&P 500.
>> Yeah. So, you know, our target for this
year end is 7,000. And the way I would
put it is actually it's a a reinstating
of our target at the beginning of the
year. we cut our numbers, our earnings
numbers and our market view, we remain
sort of constructive that we would get a
relent on policies and and and we would
go a lot higher. Uh but at the end of
the day, I mean, I think the simple fact
is uh and as some of the guests earlier
were saying, basically, you know, you
just don't see a lot of stuff with the
data. I mean, if you think about I mean,
the reason for cutting was the tariffs
and they look to be having, you know, a
much more modest impact than we
basically thought. uh I if I look at
earnings you know so you start with
macro growth I mean we got the second
quarter recovery you could say the 3.8%
8% is partly a recovery from uh you know
slowdown in Q1 but we're in Q3 now and
the Atlanta Fed uh at last read was
pretty close to 4%. So
on macro growth, you know, not much is
showing up and I would actually argue
that a lot of the negativity and sort of
the macro consensus that we would get uh
you know, pretty significant slowing
that's that that that that that's a
that's a positive catalyst and it's a
mini version really of what happened in
2023 when the macro consensus, you know,
persistently looked basically for a
recession that didn't come. And so what
you've got is basically 15 months of
positive macro data surprises and
markets are not necessarily going to go
down when you're getting continuously
positive surprises. We're having a mini
version of the same thing. If you look
at the Croup data surprise index kind of
went vertical late last week and so a I
mean you know discretionary investor
positioning is is exactly actually in
line with the macro consensus of a
slowdown in growth and a slowdown in
earnings growth. Uh but but we're not
getting those things.
>> Sock of Apollo made a similar point in
the last 24 hours. Torston was like we
all need to take a long hard look at
ourselves. were waiting for the
consequence of something that took place
six months ago and it's not happening
and he thinks that the risk of the te to
the upside particularly for inflation
into next year.
>> Well, this is the key question. Have
stock markets really not really
appreciated the gains that we've seen in
the economic growth trajectory. We just
talking about the bond market which
actually is recognizing weakness that
the Fed's going to respond to.
>> If this isn't a sign of appreciation,
what is it? Alltime highs come.
>> Exactly. This is full appreciation. I
think people are really appreciative.
Binky Cher with Deutsche Bank. Binky
always got good to see you, sir. Going
into the opening bout 34 minutes away.
Coming up tomorrow, Christopher
Strategus, Pri Misra of JP Morgan,
Francis Donald of RBC, Nadia Lavvel of
UBS.
[Music]